Contents
Minister’s Foreword	
Executive Summary	
Part One - Introduction	
Background
Purpose and Scope
The Pre-Launch of the Strategy
Part Two – Overall Direction
Prelude	
What is meant by Cyber security
Guiding Principles
Overall Vision
A Cyber Security Strategy Model
Part Three – The Strategy
The Goals and accompanying Measures	
The Goals
The Proposed Measures
Goal: Establish a governance framework
Goal: Combat Cybercrime
Goal: Strengthen National cyber defence
Goal: Secure Cyberspace
Goal: Cyber security Awareness and Education
Goal: National and International Cooperation
Conclusion
The Cyber Security Strategy Model Revisited
The Way Forward
References
Endnotes

Minister’s
Foreword
In today’s globalised world, the extensive and
efficient use of Information and Communications
Technologies (ICTs) is increasingly critical for the
effective functioning and growth of our economy.
It is an increasingly essential means for the private
sector to compete and prosper, through its ability
to connect to the local markets as well as to those
beyond our shores, efficiently and cost effectively.
Competitiveness in a digital economy however calls
for resilience to the security challenges posed within
the realm of cyber-space - ICT and its constituent
elements and its dependents.
This Strategy aims to establish the foundations to
ensure effective cyber security within Government,
the private sector and civil society. It does not
simply entail technology security controls but
involves measures related to regulation, legislation,
awareness, education, expertise and foreign affairs.
Striving for cyber security is a continuous journey.
Cyber security can never be fully attained, considering
that the technology itself, the day to day realities in
technology adoption as well as the modes of cyber
attack are in a continuous state of evolution. Hence
the Strategy is not seen as cast in stone, but it shall
need to evolve, in line with a national commitment
and collective effort to adopt a cyber security culture.
Embracing security as a normal way of everyone’s
cyber lives is in the common interest. Ultimately,
cyber security needs to be seen as a key cornerstone
to Malta’s competitiveness within the digital world
by positioning it as a secure online jurisdiction
and potentially presenting opportunities for the
development of centres of excellence in a number of
local business sectors interacting within the realm of
cyberspace.
Hon Dr. Emmanuel Mallia
Minister for Competitiveness and Digital,
Maritime and Services Economy

3
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Executive
Summary
understand their shared responsibility and 	
thus commitment to collaboration and
cooperation, to ensure a safe, stable and secure
environment

Cyber-space is far from perfect. It is at risk of
vulnerabilities, some of which involve genuine human
error, whilst others are exposed to malicious intent.
Furthermore, global innovations within its realm are
even faster than the ability to secure it. Hence the
need for cyber security, that is, ensuring the safety,
confidentiality, integrity and availability of cyberspace.

• Adopt a risk based approach, based upon the
premise that it is impossible to guarantee
immunity from any cyber attack.
All of the above constitute the fundamental principles
upon which the overall vision is based. In essence,
the Vision covers the need and expectations of three
key national stakeholders – the public sector, the
private sector and civil society to ensure cyber
security. Five dimensions enable articulation of the
vision into the strategy. They are Policy, Legislation,
Risk Management, Awareness and Education upon
which the subsequent proposed strategy is based.

Launching cyber security on a national scale,
essentially calls for a planned, collective and systemic
approach, thus leading to the need of a National
Cyber Security Strategy. Digital Malta – the National
Digital Strategy for Malta for the period 2014-2020 recognises and proposes the fulfilment of such need,
in the light of Malta’s increased dependence upon
cyber-space in its day to day interactivity, within and
beyond its shores. Indeed, in 2015, the European
Commission’s e-Government Benchmark Report
re-confirmed Malta as the leader in the delivery and
performance of e-Government services amongst
thirty-three countries.

Prior to proposing the strategy however, research
and assessments have been made so as to enable a
high level pragmatic approach towards cyber security
within the local context. The ensuing strategic
direction within the Green Paper is proposed to be
attained by six goals, each of which carries a number
of proposed measures, as follows:

Malta is addressing such a need. A Green Paper for
a National Cyber Security Strategy was launched in
October 2015, as a basis for consultation. The Green
Paper presented a high level, strategic approach
for cyber security on a national scale. It intended
to inculcate an awareness of cyber security, its
extent and its implications of which Malta, as an
integral part of cyber-space, needs to consider. The
National Cyber Security Strategy being launched is
a consolidation of the proposals presented by the
Green Paper following online feedback and a number
of consultation sessions held.

1. Goal: Establish a Governance Framework	
that is based upon the premise that a cyber
security strategy needs to be established,
and more importantly, be effectively implemented
and maintained on a continuous basis. Hence
the need to ensure the key coordination structures,
processes, roles and practice with particular
focus on cyber risk management within the
public and private sector.
2.

The National Cyber Security Strategy recognises that
tackling cyber security entails the need to:

• Safeguard the rule of law in line with Malta’s 	
3.
Constitution and Malta’s role as a European
Union Member State
• Adopt a multi-disciplinary approach
• Ensure that all stakeholders of cyber-space; 	
government, private sector, and civil society

Goal: Combat Cybercrime
which aims to ensure and consolidate capabilities
to tackle cybercrime.
Goal: Strengthen National Cyber Defence
which aims to foster sharing of cyber security
knowledge and intelligence, review current
legislation and regulations in line with cyberspace developments and ensure digital
resilience on a national and organisation wide

4
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

“

Launching cyber
security on a national
scale, essentially calls for
a planned, collective and
systemic approach, thus
leading to the need of a
National Cyber Security
Strategy.

scale of particular consideration are recent legal
developments at EU level, notably legislation
pertaining to data protection and that related to
Network and Information Security.
4. 	 Goal: Secure cyber-space
which aims to foster self regulation and
voluntary self commitment, bearing in mind that
legislation is not a panacea to cyber security
commitments. It also aims to stimulate use of
standards and best practices that guarantee
security whilst allowing for interoperability.
Special focus is also given to promote security
and trust of online public services and to
consolidate support to the private sector.

”

5.	 Goal: Cyber security Awareness and
	Education
which aims to target academia, the public
and private sector and citizens as a means to
sensitize awareness, knowledge as well as
capabilities and expertise in cyber security.
A national strategic approach towards an
ongoing educational and awareness campaign
is especially recommended.

• Increased recognition on a nation-wide scale of
the importance to adopt cyber security measures
in day to day corporate and individual activities
• Evolving maturity of overall cyber security
capability
• Technological developments and applicability,
along with related cyber security challenges
• Evolution in cybercrime behaviour
• Developments on a national scale, in line with
European Union direction on cyber security to its
Member States of which Malta forms part.

6. 	 Goal: National and International Cooperation
which aims to ensure effective consultation,
cooperation and collaboration on a national
level, on a European and on a global basis,
enabled by EU and international institutions
and activities, based on the understanding that
cyber security has no bounds.

Hence, the Strategy would be expected to be
periodically reviewed and updated. Ultimately, the
Strategy is understood as a means for national cyber
security investment that indicates Malta as a :
• Secure online jurisdiction

All six goals aim to cover two key strategic outcomes
expected of the Strategy, namely those of:
• Defending and protecting the national
information infrastructure from cyber threats.
• Ensuring the security, safety and protection
of users of cyber-space.

• Centre of excellence in various business sectors
interacting within cyber-space.

The proposed strategic approach is by no means
the end in itself. It is understood that the launch
of the Strategy is only the start of a continuous
process that calls for its implementation, evaluation
and maintenance so as to ensure its currency and
effectiveness in line with:
5
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

6
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part One

Introduction

7
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part One
Introduction

1.	BACKGROUND

2.	 PURPOSE AND SCOPE

Up to a few decades ago, a country’s security interests
focussed on protecting its borders, its waters and its
airspace. Today, cyber-space forms an integral part
of a country’s day to day reality.

This Strategy intends to set an overall high level
direction in cyber security across all strata of the
Maltese economy and society. As a first issue, it
also intends to consolidate a recognition of the need
for a planned and concerted effort by the various
stakeholders involved so as to protect Malta and its
interests.

Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
leads the way in interaction within and outside of a
country’s territory and its disruption may potentially
affect life. Hence, cyber-space cannot be left out of a
country’s span of protection.

is affected by
“cyberEveryone
issues and everyone

Malta is no island within the realm of cyber-space!
Cyber-space knows no boundaries. It transcends
national borders, promoting online opportunities of
dialogue, mutual cooperation and understanding
beyond our shores. However, the cyber world makes
no distinction between its users of good intent or not.

needs mutual assistance.
It is therefore in everyone’s
interest and responsibility
to ensure a secure and safe
cyber-space for all.

Therefore, as opportunities are limitless, so are cyber
threats. Such malicious attempts in cyber-space
may be launched anywhere, in any vulnerable area
of a digital network, instantaneously leaving no time
for an appropriate response and with very minimal
traceability or detection of its perpetrator.

”

Ultimately, cyber-space is man-made and like
anything else of its sort, it is never perfect. The rapid
advances of technology itself and the opportunities
that arise from it do not allow it either. Indeed the
innovations in technology and its adoption are even
faster than the ability to secure it.

This Strategy should translate into timely, specific
and actionable measures that set the foundations
for a national cyber security framework that shall
need to be implemented, maintained and updated
so as to ensure currency and relevance in a highly
challenging, dynamic and complex environment as
that posed by cyber-space.

Malta’s security of cyber-space ultimately calls for
a planned, collective and systemic approach that
respects fundamental rights and freedoms whilst
ensuring confidentiality, integrity and availability
of cyberspace on a day-to-day basis. Such is the
intention of Digital Malta – the National Digital
Strategy for the period 2014 till 2020 – which
identifies a National Cyber Security Strategy as one
of its required actions.

Through its various goals and corresponding
measures, the National Cyber Security Strategy aims
to:
• Position cyber security as a national investment,
that gives an indication beyond Malta’s shores
of the country’s commitment to a secure cyberspace for online transaction and interaction
• Convey the key message that cyber security
cannot be achieved in isolation. It does not
8

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part One
Introduction

simply fall within the domain of Information
and Communications Technology experts and
practitioners. Everyone is affected by cyber
issues and everyone needs mutual assistance.
It is therefore in everyone’s interest and
responsibility to ensure a secure and safe cyberspace for all.

(iii)	 A multi-stakeholder perspective, based on the
understanding that apart from technology, cyber
security impacts upon all of country’s political, legal,
economic and social well being.
The Green Paper set the basis for consultation
through:
1.	 Online feedback using http://mita.gov.mt/ncss
	 and
http://www.konsultazzjoni.gov.mt
that
	
lasted till 14 February 2016

The National Cyber Security Strategy, above all, aims
to align itself within the scope of:
• Specific EU legal requirements1. Reference
to such legal requirements, however, does not
preclude the need to refer to the specific legal
requirements for further direction.

2.	
	
	
	

• Digital Malta and other local strategy documents
such as e-Commerce Malta - the National
e-commerce Strategy (2014-2020) - published
by the Malta Communications Authority2.

A series of consultation events, which were held
between March and June 2016 and which
targeted a number of social and economic
sectors, namely:
• Economy and Finance
• Education and National Awareness
• Justice and Legislation
• Infrastructure and Health
• National Security
• The Public

3.	 THE PRE-LAUNCH OF
	 THE STRATEGY

The consultative process led to relevant updates to
the proposals made within the Green Paper; leading
to the issue of this first version of the National Cyber
Security Strategy.
 

On 30th October 2015, the Minister for the Economy,
Investment and Small Business launched a Green
Paper for a National Cyber Security Strategy. The
Green Paper followed extensive research based
upon various published sources to assess cyber
security from:
(i) A global and from a European Union
perspective, based on the understanding that
the interconnectedness in cyberspace renders
any challenge in cyber security as potentially
impacting any country applying Information and
Communications Technology, including Malta.
(ii) A domestic perspective, particularly with respect
to:
• Experiences and concerns expressed by
Maltese participants in annual Euro Barometer
surveys specialising in cyber security
• Malta’s current official position in particular
aspects of cyber security

9
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

10
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Two

Overall Direction

11
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Two
Overall Direction

4.	PRELUDE

interconnectedness of cyber-space exposes all of
its constituents to a failure of their most vulnerable
elements4 .

This Section sets the scene for the National Cyber
Security Strategy, through a definition of what is
meant by cyber-space and its security and an outline
of the key principles leading to the vision expected to
be attained through the strategy.

Additionally effective cyber security cannot be
reached by technological measures alone as modern
cyber attacks could bypass all defence layers by
exploiting the human factors through techniques
such as social engineering5.

A Cyber Security Model presented encapsulates the
key dimensions that are to be addressed by means of
goals and corresponding measures, proposed in Part
3, for the implementation of the Strategy.

Hence, safeguards and actions hereby refer to
ongoing and planned measures which may potentially
be of technical, operational, legislative, educational,
behavioural or disseminative nature.

5.	 WHAT IS MEANT BY
	 CYBER SECURITY

Above all, cyber security cannot be seen from a
technological aspect only, but needs to cover the
needs and expectations of the state, the economy
and society, all of which are increasingly active
participants in an interactive digital world.
 

Definitions for cyber security abound; however they
all essentially point to the security of the cyberspace; namely all:
• Interconnected ICT hardware and software
infrastructure

6.	 GUIDING PRINCIPLES

• Data in transit and at rest on the networks

Within this context, the Strategy, in its lifecycle, shall
be guided by a number of principles as follows:

• Connected users
• Logical connections established among them

Rule of Law
In view of the above , the following definition of cyber
security is being adopted:
3

The approach on cyber security shall respect
and promote fundamental rights and freedoms
as chartered within European Union and national
legislation. All measures shall comply with the
principles of necessity, proportionality and legality,
with appropriate safeguards to ensure accountability
and redress.

It is the safeguards and actions that can be used to
protect cyber domain from those threats that are
associated with or that may harm its interdependent
networks and information infrastructure. It strives to
preserve the availability and integrity of the networks
and infrastructure and the confidentiality of the
information contained therein.

Multi-stakeholder,
cooperative
collaborative approach
Essentially, cyber security is based upon the
foundations of information security, namely
confidentiality, integrity and availability. However,
whilst information security is business driven and
results in prudent investment in safeguards and
countermeasures, cyber security is threat driven
where all cyber-space is at risk. The inherent

and

The pervasive nature of cyber-space, essentially calls
for a multi-stakeholder approach towards its security
– both at a national level as well as beyond Malta’s
shores. Hence, on a national level, cooperation and
collaboration of various stakeholders, including the
12

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Two
Overall Direction

“

of cyber attack. Hence a risk-based approach to
assess, prioritise and take measures to ensure cyber
security, along with any technology investment is
necessary.

Whilst leading in its
commitment towards
cyber security on a national
scale, Government cannot
assume sole responsibility
for protecting all of
cyberspace. All users of
ICT are responsible to
take reasonable steps to
protect systems and data
on an individual and on a
collective basis.

7.	 OVERALL VISION
Within the context of the articulated principles, an
overall vision for the National Cyber Security Strategy
is:
To ensure a secure, resilient and trusted digital
interactive environment that supports Malta’s safety
and security whilst maximising on the benefits of a
digital economy.
In specific terms, the vision entails that:

”

• Civil society is aware of cyber risks and
undertakes necessary precautions to protect
its privacy, confidentiality, personal integrity,
identity and well-being
• The Private Sector, whilst tapping the
opportunities resulting from the technology
developments, actively ensures that it operates
in a secure and resilient digital economy, whilst
ensuring effective delivery of their services and/
or goods and protection of their customer’s
privacy and integrity

public sector, the private sector, academia and civil
society is necessary. A cooperative and collaborative
approach at an EU and international level is also
required.

Shared goal and responsibility

• The Public Sector leads the way in ensuring a
secure and resilient digital environment for its
interaction with and/or service delivery to civil
society, private enterprise and with regional and
international partners, as well as in placing
Malta as a secure online location for business
interaction.

Effective cyber security essentially calls for the
sharing of one common goal that transcends
boundaries. Whilst leading in its commitment towards
cyber security on a national scale, Government
cannot assume sole responsibility for protecting all of
cyberspace. All users of ICT are responsible to take
reasonable steps to protect systems and data on an
individual and on a collective basis.

The National Cyber Security Strategy aims to address
the needs and expectations of each of the above
stakeholders, in the light of the proposed vision.

Risk Management
The widely diffused use of cyberspace coupled
with its rapid and continuous evolvement, renders
it impossible to guarantee immunity from any form
13

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Two
Overall Direction

Proposed goals and related measures underscore in
more specific terms how the strategy is expected to
be implemented.

8.	 A CYBER SECURITY 		
	 STRATEGY MODEL
As outlined in Figure 1, the strategy addresses five
dimensions which are identified within the Cyber
Security Capability Maturity Model of the Global
Cyber Security Capacity Centre, University of
Oxford6.

Policy
Legislation
Risk Management
Culture
Education
Civil Society
Public Sector
Private Sector

Risk
Management

Policy

Legislation

Devising cyber
security policy and
strategy that sets
the direction on a
national level.

Creating
effective legal
and regulatory
frameworks to
support all aspects
of the strategy.

Controlling
risks through
organisation,
standards and
technology.

Culture

Education

Fostering
awareness to
encourage a
responsible cyber
culture throughout
society.

Building cyber
skills into the
workforce and
leadership
through effective
education.

Figure 1 – A Cyber Security Strategy Model for Malta

14
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three

The Strategy

15
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

9.	 THE GOALS AND
	 ACCOMPANYING 			
	MEASURES

global and regional aspect, apart from the national
focus of related security. In all, the six goals aim to
cover two key strategic outcomes expected from
the Strategy, namely:
•	 Defending and protecting the national
information infrastructure from cyber threats

9.1	 The Goals

	

Digital Malta, and in particular, Action 53, proposes
four high level goals for a National Cyber Security
Strategy, which are:

•	 Ensuring the security, safety and protection of
	
users of cyber-space.

• Combat Cybercrime
Law enforcement agencies are to identify gaps
and strengthen their capability to investigate and
combat cybercrime.

9.2	 The Proposed Measures
A set of measures to each corresponding goal are
proposed below, based upon:
•	Analysis, as well as consultations undertaken
	
within the local context,

• Strengthen National Cyber Defence
Public and private entities are to be guided and
assisted in strengthening their cyber defence
capabilities.
• Secure Cyber-space
Higher levels of trust are to be instilled through
awareness programmes and the delivery of
trustworthy, ICT-enabled services that assure
confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy.

	

•	 Best practices noted in cyber security strategies
within the European Union and worldwide,

	
	
	

•	EU legal requirements and direction. The
measures outlined do not exclude action that
may need to be taken with respect to specific EU
legal requirements7.

•	 Relevant action items within Digital Malta and
	
other local strategies such as e-Commerce
	Malta.8  

• Build Capacity (Cyber security Awareness
and Education)
The skills and educational frameworks required are
to be identified and developed.
However, sound and stable governance essential for
the effective ongoing implementation of a National
Cyber Security Strategy, calls for two other goals,
namely:
• Establish a Governance Framework to attain
a National Cyber Security Strategy
Given that at this stage, only the technical and
operational structures are in formation. The
strategic level that focuses on the long term trends,
analysis and coordination in cyber security is also
necessary.
• National and International Cooperation
given that the borderless nature of cyber-related
activity, essentially calls for particular regard to the
16
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

1. Goal: Establish a governance framework

operational nature. This entails ensuring consolidation
of a top level National CSIRT10. It also implies close
communication 	and coordination of the CSIRT with
the proposed strategy implementation function,
given that it would need to be involved on:

The
governance
framework
covers
the
necessary key functions and corresponding roles
and responsibilities, as well as policies and
processes necessary9 to constitute a robust
foundation for an effective national cyber
security strategy.

• Real-time information sharing and response to
calls
• Longer term planning11. Communication and
coordination, as the need arises, with other
CSIRTS existing in Malta would also be necessary.

i. Establish the necessary key coordination
structures
It is envisaged that the following functions
(involving
multiple
stakeholders)
shall
be
required to ensure sustainability of the National
Cyber Security Strategy:
a.	

The structure12 and responsibilities of these functions
is subject to further reference and alignment to the
relevant European Union legal requirements13 as well
as to further consultation.

At the strategic level:
i. A function for the articulation and periodic review
of the National Cyber Security Strategy. The
creation of this function is required in the short
term. This body would need to work in close
cooperation with the strategy implementation
function(s) referred to below

ii. Foster the coordination to protect national
critical information infrastructure
Measures
of
preparedness,
response
and
recovery, including cooperation and ongoing
coordination
mechanisms
are
particularly
necessary to protect national critical information
infrastructure. It is thus necessary to ensure that
such
national
coordination
between
all
stakeholders concerned14 is fostered.

ii. A strategy implementation function to oversee
implementation of the strategy and monitor cyber
security operations. Such function needs to have
the necessary funding, resources and mandate to:

iii. Ensure clear delineation and communication
of roles and responsibilities

• take a leading, active role in the implementation
of the National Cyber security strategy, keeping
in view of policy and planning developments
within the realm of Malta’s digital economy
and society as well as further cyber security
related developments on a national, EU and
international perspective

Cyber related roles and responsibilities - such
as those identified above and potentially those
arising from the proposed measures, as well as
those
resulting
from
relevant
EU
legal
requirements15, need to be clearly delineated
and agreed upon accordingly.
Communication
of their establishment further ensures the
effective coordination that may be necessary
between the effected stakeholders themselves.

• ensure security preparedness of the public and
private sector of their ICT, in line with established
security requirements. This implies driving for
effective engagement and ongoing high level
coordination across Malta’s public and private
sector.

iv. Ensure the conduct of a national cyber risk
assessment exercise

b. At the operational level, function(s) for the
national coordination of cyber detection and
response. Computer Security Incident Response
Teams (CSIRTs) tend to be of such technical and

A National Cyber Risk Assessment exercise
shall need to identify the major national cyber
threats and risks, assess respective impacts and
17

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

suggest
risk
mitigation
and
management
strategies accordingly. The exercise entails
participation and coordination between all
stakeholders involved16 and it needs to be
updated on a regular basis, so as to ensure its
currency with:

data. The legislation demands a risk-based
approach with the development of appropriate
controls.
vi. Encourage cyber risk assessments by other
organisations not falling within the scope of
Measure 1 (v)

• The cyber threat landscape

The emphasis on individual risk assessment
made to specific organisations with respect to
network and information security, in Measure 1 (v)
should not however construe that other
organisations need not adopt similar activities.
Indeed, data protection legislation, also referred
to in Measure 1 (v) is applicable to all
organisations processing personal data.

• Evolution in the adoption of existing and emerging
ICT.
One key deliverable of the National Cyber Risk
Assessment is a strategic plan that
includes
cooperation and communication processes needed
to ensure prevention, detection, response, repair
and recovery (including communication), that are
modulated according to the alert level are to be
ensured.

An assessment of financial risks related to cyberrelated incidents could possibly also indicate a market
in cyber insurance, which may in turn contribute to
information sharing among its participants, apart
from availability of financial coverage to mitigate
consequential losses.

Such processes also refer to national incident cyber
handling procedures and business continuity plans
to ensure resilience. Furthermore, it is understood
that such processes need to be subject to a schedule
of regular testing and validation exercises17, with the
resulting outcome (including lessons learnt) used as
a basis for any related updates.

Ultimately, however, it needs to be borne in mind that
cyber insurance coverage alone is not a panacea to
cyber security threats. It needs to be carried out with
in conjunction with consideration and applicability
of cyber security measures in line with the risks
assessed.

v. Ensure necessary measures in line with
individual cyber risks assessments by key Public
and Private sector organisations
falling within
the scope of related EU legal requirements

vii. Consolidate the Information
Framework within the Public Sector

The conduct of a National Cyber Risk
Assessment does not exclude the conduct of
individual cyber risk assessments particularly
by the public and private sector organisations
falling within the scope of related EU legal
requirements
on
network
and
information
security18.

Security

The Government of Malta Information Security Policy
is expected to come into force in the near future.
It is based upon ISO 27001 Information Security
international standard and applies to all of the Public
Sector.
viii. Ensure classification of data within the Public
Sector and encourage it within the private sector

Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and
other Directives coming into force by June
2018 across the EU, also call for all organisations
to
ensure
regular
risk
assessments
by
organisations to understand the degree of threat
imposed on them when processing personal

The classification of electronic data within the
Public Sector and the application of security
controls commensurate to the security marking
assigned is one area, among others, referred to
18

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

2. Goal: Combat Cybercrime

within the Information Security Policy, referred to in
Measure 1 (vii). This aspect is a critical initial step
in ensuring effective cyber security, also keeping in
view of the inherent sensitivity of data dealt within
the sector. Nonetheless, the classification of data as
one of the primary tasks to be undertaken by any
organisation (public sector or otherwise) is one of
the key awareness targets that needs to be taken into
account.

i. Establish Forum for Internet Safety and
Protection of Minors
This measure is referred to in Digital Malta, and
it proposes a number of relevant public sector
stakeholders and industry representatives as the
Forum’s members. The Forum aims to:
• Share knowledge
• Monitor developments
• Put forward policy ideas
• Represent Malta on European bodies working in
	
this field

 

This Forum could potentially help out in reviewing
the Cyber security strategy itself with respect to
combating cybercrime activity.

security is crucial.
“Yet,Internal
it also needs to be

ii. Identify gaps and strengthen capability to
investigate and combat cybercrime

borne in mind that threats to
EU citizens are increasingly
cross border and varied in
nature. EU Member states,
including Malta, can thus
no longer succeed on their
own.

A regular assessment of present state cybercrime
capability in Malta among all relevant law enforcement,
investigative and judicial roles and any related action
necessary is indeed a prerequisite in the light of the
continuously evolving threat vector landscape.
Internal security is crucial. Yet, it also needs to be borne
in mind that threats to EU citizens are increasingly
cross border and varied in nature. EU Member states,
including Malta, can thus no longer succeed on their
own. The European Agenda on Security – the EU’s
strategy to tackle security threats in the EU for period
2015-202019 is intended to contribute in this respect.
Cybercrime is one of the Agenda’s priorities for the
years 2015-2020.

”

The Agenda aims to strengthen and make more
effective the exchange of information and operational
cooperation between Member states, EU Agencies
and the critical information infrastructure sector; by
aiming to:
•	Reinforce the capacity of law enforcement
	 authorities in Member states, in particular
	 through the Europol’s European Cybercrime
	Centre
19
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

3. Goal: Strenghten National cyber defence

•	 Address obstacles to criminal investigations on
	
cybercrime, notably with respect to access to
	evidence
	
	

i. Establish a collective approach for sharing
cyber security knowledge and intelligence

•	
Prioritise the implementation of existing
legislation on attacks against information
systems and on combating child abuse.

A collective approach, involving both the public and
private sector, potentially facilitated through the use
of ICT is needed to:

iii. Assess and consolidate on-line reporting of
	cybercrime

•	Allow participants from across sectors and
	
organisations to exchange information on cyber
	
threats and to mutually strengthen response to
	 cyber threats, vulnerabilities and incidents
	 securely, efficiently and effectively20, whilst
	
operating within a framework that protects the
	
confidentiality of the shared information.21 It may
	 also allow for intra-business sect oral
	 communication, particularly in areas where
	 particular information may be deemed as
	
of a highly sensitive nature to be shared with all
	participants

The on-line mechanism is needed to report illicit online
activity for the required action to be taken as well as
to determine the extent of cybercrime. It entails:
•	 The ability to track cybercrime at a national level
	

•	 Ensuring further nation-wide related awareness,
especially among citizens and small businesses.

It is also recommended to ensure that a strategic
approach on the applicability of online services
related to cybercrime handling is taken, so as to
enhance effectiveness, whilst maximising the use of
resources.
Additionally, the ability to handle cases related to
cyber bullying (or any other form of cyber abuse) also
needs to be ensured among online support personnel
handling services pertaining to abuse.

	

•	 Analyse new trends and identify opportunities
and emerging threats
•	 Work to strengthen cyber security
•	 Provide framework for sharing best practice22

•	
Potentially
improve
professionalism
in
	
information assurance and cyber defence across
	
the private and public sector through schemes for
	
certifying related competence and specialist
	training.
ii. Review existing legislation and provide
measures through legislation and regulation to
ensure relevance and effectiveness to the cyber
world
This measure builds upon two objectives of Digital
Malta, as follows:
•	Objective 43 – review existing legislation to
	
ensure relevance and effectiveness in the cyber
	world’
•	Objective 44 – provide measures to maintain
	 privacy, safety and security while surfing,
	
transacting and operating on-line. Legislation
	
will address several matters such as safeguarding
	
intellectual property rights, patents, sensitive
	
and personal information, cloud computing and
20

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

	 data ownership, contentious content, net
	
neutrality, vendor lock-in and exit management
	 strategies; online contracts and license
	agreements.

to defend its cyber-space territory to ensure that the
security of the nation is maintained.Such measure
entails ensuring that the following are addressed:
•	 Cyber-space defences
•	 Structures to counter terrorist attacks

The measure is also highly relevant taking into
consideration:
•	The requirements arising from the European
	
Agenda on Security, referred to in Measure 2.2.
	
	
	
	
	

•	Action 38 – Digital Single Market – of Digital
Malta, which states Government’s intention to
maximise the benefits and opportunities deriving
from legislation adopted within the EU such
as those related to data protection, electronic
identification and trust, etc

	
	
	

•	 Relevant EU Directive and regulation , notably
among others, recent EU data protection
legislation and legal requirements pertaining to
Network and Information Security

•	 Ability and capacity to detect threats in cyber	space
•	 Capability to disrupt attacks on the country from
	cyber-space
	
	

•	 Active consideration of direction being taken at
EU level on areas such as cyber diplomacy26
and on ways to counter hybrid threats27.

Malta has the right and
“obligation
to defend its
cyber-space territory to
ensure that the security of
the nation is maintained.

Within this light, the notion of having one national
legislation for cyber security, merits active
consideration. It is understood that its effectiveness
would need to be backed by:

”

•	 Prior multi-displinary wide national consultation
	
	

•	 Consideration and alignment to existing national
and EU legal requirements covering aspects of
cyber security24

iv. Conduct national cyber simulation exercises
Cyber simulation exercises are to be scheduled and
conducted from time to time, at a national level.
Such measure contributes to the need to review
the ability to anticipate, prepare for, identify and
attribute, combat hostile cyberspace acts. Apart from
technical considerations, cyber simulation exercises
should also assess non-technical areas both at an
operational, tactical as well as at a strategic level such
as testing national and international coordination and
any relevant Standard Operational Practices.

•	 A balance between incentives and sanctions
	
	

•	 Promotion of related awareness and cooperation
with the various stakeholders involved in working
towards cyber resilience.

The legislation may be positioned in a way so as to
allow sectors (regulated or otherwise) to adopt any
further measures as necessary.
iii. Ensure the country’s digital resilience to
cyber attack as well as the capability to protect
its interests

The participation of key public and private sector
stakeholders28 in such exercises is crucial.
The participation of other organisations is also
encouraged.

As an independent sovereign state and as a member
of the United Nations (UN), Malta has the right to
defend its own territory and its infrastructure from
acts of aggression from other states25. Cyber-space
is no exception and Malta has the right and obligation
21

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

4. Goal: Secure Cyberspace

Such alignment may also call for particular
consideration, in terms of support, to organisations
having limited or constrained resources (including
human and financial).
On the other hand, it is understood that legislation
and regulation cannot necessarily cover all aspects
of cyber security; particularly considering potential
financial and human resource constraints for robust
cyber security.

i. Establish regulation and voluntary selfcommitment for guaranteeing cyber security
The
current
scenario
analysis
of
cyber
security in Malta indicates areas of regulation and
policy particularly within the local regulated industry
sectors. Focus appears to be mainly on policy
frameworks covering the licensing approaches which
seek to mitigate risk.

Voluntary self commitment is, thus, also key to cyber
security. The notion of the applicability of a European
security trust mark, applied also in a number of EU
states 31may encourage voluntary self commitment
and may therefore be one item to explore the
possibility of its use locally. Local national strategy
may already serve as a potential opportunity for
further consideration in fostering self commitment,
such as:

“

Interoperability is one
means of broadening and
strenghtening collaboration,
establishing intelligence
and improving situational
awareness, all of which are
essential for effective cyber
security.

	

•	 e-Commerce Malta which highlights three pillars
as its basis:
i.	 Engendering trust in ecommerce

”

ii.	 Transforming micro-enterprises
iii.	Taking Small to Medium sized Enterprises
and industry to the next level; which specifically
also refers to an audit-kit – through a Specialist
advisory service (Measure 2) and the European
trust-mark (Measure 9)

Whilst legislation may help, Maltese regulatory
authorities may also need to address further emerging
technology such as cloud computing applicability,
through regulation within their respective sectors.

	
	
	
	

The formulation of regulation pertaining to cyber
security would need to take into consideration, among
others, the latest EU data protection legislation29 as
well as of legal requirements pertaining to network
and information security, where applicable.

•	 Digital Malta which refers to the Forum for the
transformation of industries through ICT that
aims to raise awareness about how ICT can help
industries transform themselves and to discuss
items such as self-regulation.

Other potential opportunities which may be explored
include financial incentives, such as in the form of
grant schemes, as a means to entice the applicability
of necessary cyber security related measures.

Regulation within sectors may also include
conformance to internationally recognised security
standards or industry led cyber security related
standards or practices, with the aim of bolstering
cyber security as well as establishing centres of
excellence within the sectors themselves.

ii. Stimulate use of interoperable and secure
standards on the basis of good practice
Digital Malta, through Action 42 – Standards and
Good Practice, states Government’s intention to
collaborate with stakeholders to support and promote
22

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

A chain is only as
“strong
as its weakest link.

National and EU cross-border interoperability, ICT
standards based on industry best practices and
Green ICT.

Unfortunately, within the
realm of cyber security,
weakest link could, more
often than not, be traced
to the human factor.
The behavioural and
educational aspect of cyber
security cannot thus be
discounted.

Interoperability is one means of broadening and
strenghtening collaboration, establishing intelligence
and improving situational awareness32, all of which
are essential for effective cyber security33. With
respect to the notion of nationally and EU recognised
interoperability, which also effectively promotes the
use of safe secure standards, Digital Malta states as
one of its objectives, Government’s commitment to
revise and revamp the current National Interoperability
Framework including related policies34.
The implementation of internationally recognised
information security standard35 controls within the
public sector36 and potentially within the private
sector should contribute to cyber security on the
local scenario. The applicability of such controls may
serve as a good initial basis.

”

of ICT products and services for Government as well
as in other areas of application.

However consideration of industry led standards
and guidance that put in place a series of measures
specifically aimed to address cyber threats37 are also
to be encouraged for use. This could form an integral
part of what is proposed in Measure 4 (i).

Additionally, the use of cloud computing services
within the public sector needs to be seen to in the
light of EU legal requirements pertaining to security of
network and information systems39 as well as those
pertaining to the Data Protection Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and other Directives.

In particular, special consideration needs to be given
by operators and users of emerging technologies. In
such areas, related standards and security controls,
may still be in the very early stages of maturity and
may thus pose cyber security vulnerability challenges
for interoperability which need to be carefully
assessed.

iv. Consolidate support to the private sector on
cyber security
Measure 4 (i) outlines how cyber security can be
facilitated in the private sector. Apart from potential
public sector driven incentives, private sector
participation in awareness and advice programmes
as well as cyber related exercises to specific sectors
may additionally help.

iii. Promote robust levels of cyber security in
online public services
Such measure may alleviate concerns expressed
within Euro barometer findings with respect to
Maltese accessing online services38. The applicability
of interoperable and secure standards, as referred
to in Measure 4 (ii), may potentially contribute for
the attainment of such measure.It also calls for an
emphasis to ensure security and privacy in the design

For example, ways may potentially be sought with
business service providers (e.g. lawyers, insurers)
of how they can potentially develop services to
incentivise and help businesses manage and reduce
risks40.
23

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

5. Goal: Cyber security Awareness and
Education

on traditional modes of education but also on
experimentation of innovative ways of their conduct43.
From a younger generation perspective, Action 2 Empowering the young through a safer Internet
- of Digital Malta states that “Digital Citizenship will
become part of the National Education Curriculum,
to equip children and youths with the abilities to
interact and use the Internet safely and intelligently.
Parents and carers will be involved together with
educators and youth workers. This action will
stimulate the production of creative online content,
empower the younger generation and help create a
safer environment. With the support of competent
authorities this measure will help combat cyber child
abuse and exploitation”.

i. Encourage cyber security education and training
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
Unfortunately, within the realm of cyber security,
weakest link could, more often than not, be traced to
the human factor. The behavioural and educational
aspect of cyber security cannot thus be discounted.
It is therefore of tantamount importance to ensure
a rigorous and ongoing educational and training
exercise that targets both the current workforce as
well as the younger student generation
This measure thus primarily entials:
•	 Further recognition of the need for cyber security
	
skills and competencies
•	 Academic and training programmes designed to
	
consolidate cyber security expertise
•	The review of existing curricula that focusses
	
on cyber security along with ICT and media
	
competencies.

Within the current cyber security scenario, there
appear to be related awareness campaigns, as well
as curricular–related plans and developments in
schools.
The imparting of cyber security awareness in schools
in particular calls for its sustainability in the long
term, also keeping in view of related European
Union direction to Member States with respect to
teaching online safety in schools44. It also calls for
consideration of a holistic perspective in the process,
such as through:

Action 60 - Building national capacity in specialist
skill sets - of Digital Malta states Government’s
commitment, through educational institutions
and industry to support the creation of specialist
educational pathways, addressing labour market
requirements and to develop the curriculum and
provide technical materials. Cyber security expertise
also needs to be seen within the context of such
initiative. Specialist cyber-security related education
and training is to be actively considered in areas such
as those related to cybercrime41.

•	 A focus on basic cyber hygiene45 and protection
	
of personal data
•	A sound understanding by students of the
	concepts
behind
Information
and
	
Communication technologies being used and
	
their potential vulnerabilities and risks, apart
	
from the opportunities that they offer46. This
	
includes the proper handling and use of the
	
technologies being applied for interaction

Cyber security related training and certification
programmes are to be further encouraged, as an
opportunity to effectively increase security level42
of organisations and maintaining such increased
level of security in the long term. Prior and post
assessment of such programmes may serve as one
way of ensuring their effectiveness.

•	 Ensuring cyber related training for all teachers
•	Ensuring effective engagement, participation
	
and support of all school management on cyber
	
security education and awareness
	
	

However, consideration should also be taken that
such programmes may not necessarily focus only

•	Seeking further ways to enage parents/
guardians of students in learning on cyber
security related matters

24
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

“

•	 A means of proposing legislative or regulatory
	
updates, based on relevant research or lessons
	learnt
•	 A potential agent for future economic growth in
	
Malta within the cyber security domain
•	A complementary mechanism to a collective
	
approach for sharing cyber security knowledge
	
and intelligence, proposed as Measure 3 (i).

It is highly recommended
that a concerted, ongoing
strategic approach is
undertaken, potentially
through a nationwide
Communications strategy
for cyber security; aimed
at addressing the various
strata of society, business
and public sector along with
their corresponding needs,
expectations, and potential
ICTs and concepts applied

The establishment could potentially be enabled
through:
•	 Agreement of overseas cooperation on related
	
matters
•	 Related EU supporting initiatives
•	 Inclusion of existing internationally certified local
	
expertise in cyber security.
iii. Ensure relevant education and training to
public sector staff and other stakeholders50
Training and education on cyber security is one key
priority within the public sector, especially given the
sector’s wider extensive use of ICT and sensitive data,
compared to other sectors. In any office environment
it needs to be kept in view, that technology controls
are not sufficient to protect data from related cyber
security threats. The controls need to go hand in
hand with human resource, awareness and employee
guidance programs51.

”

•	Ensuring the necessary legal safeguards to
	
protect both the student as well as the teaching
	
profession on cyber related challenges such as
	
cyber bullying.
Curricular developments and academic programmes
aimed at establishing a cyber security focus47 is to be
further encouraged, seeking further creative ways of
instilling such education48 in the process.

The development of cyber security expertise within
the public sector is another key area that merits
particular attention. In the process, it also needs
to be ensured that a comprehensive list of public
sector professionals certified under internationally
recognised certification programs in cyber security is
established and maintained52. Furthermore, it needs
to be ensured that ICT personnel are trained so as to
enable them to recognise cyber incidents, to detect
anomalies in their ICT systems and to respond and to
report them accordingly.

ii. Explore possibility of establishing a Cyber
Centre of Excellence
The establishment of a cyber centre of excellence
may serve as:
•	 A form of implementation of Action 60 – Building
	
national capacity in specialist skill sets of Digital
	
Malta , refered to in the previous measure
•	 A training base for cyber security expertise.
•	
Having a maintained comprehensive list
	
of professionals certified under internationally
	 recognised certification programs in cyber
	security49
•	 A source of promotion of related best practice

iv. Foster application of research and development
on cyber security
Such measure aims to ensure cyber security as
among key research priorities. It effectively calls
for encouragement and support for research in any
25

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

national and EU research projects and initiatives
on cyber security. Essentially, it entails participation
not only from Government but also from the private
sector and the academia.

•	 Ingraining a culture of cyber security awareness
	
on the potential misuse, vulnerabilities and risks
	
potentially arising from the ICTs and concepts
	 applied (particularly those emerging); whilst
	
embracing the opportunities arising from their
	use

v. A Strategic, target-oriented national awareness
and advice campaign
It is highly recommended that a concerted, ongoing
strategic approach is undertaken, potentially through
a nationwide Communications strategy for cyber
security53; aimed at addressing the various strata of
society, business and public sector along with their
corresponding needs, expectations, and potential
ICTs and concepts applied54.

	
	
	
	
	

Most measures highlighted within Goals 4 and 5 of
this strategy as well as any established national way of
sharing related knowledge, experience and insight as
referred to in Measure 3 (i)56 may potentially serve as
key sources for the establishment and maintenance
of such a concerted strategic campaign.

Such an approach may ensure:
•	
Avoiding
piecemeal,
potentially
	
approaches to awareness campaigns

one-off

•	 No duplication of effort
	

•	 Imparting the key message that it is ultimately
in everyone’s interest and responsibility to take
the necessary relevant cyber security safeguards;
keeping in view of the inherent interconnectedness of individuals and organisations
alike in cyber-space.

•	 Maximisation of cyber security related financial
and human resources

vi. Encourage ‘cyber hygiene’ and personal
responsibility

•	Identification and engagement of all potential
	 sources of dissemination of the awareness
	campaigns

Ultimately, citizens are expected to apply at least
some form of basic ‘cyber hygiene’ in using ICT,
such as through careful disposition and use of
personal information on-line, installing software
updates and anti-virus software, using basic security
controls such as strong passwords and, as much as
possible, seeking to be more wary of any suspicious
activity related to their personal on-line accounts.
The national awareness campaign, as highlighted in
Measure 5 (v), should help in reaching this objective.

•	Imparting effective awareness and knowledge
	
on cyber security patterns and measures that is
	
commensurate to the specific target audience
	
and to the medium used55
•	 A measure of the extent of national awareness
and understanding of cyber security over time
•	 That cyber security is not simply a concern of
	
ICT professionals.
	

Furthermore, the possibility of a national responsible
disclosure policy framework that enables wellintentioned system users to safely inform
Government, businesses or institutions about
detected vulnerabilities in their ICT systems or
services may also be explored. The framework would
need to establish the right parameters and conditions
so as to ensure its effectiveness57.
 

Ultimately, the key factors that need to be borne in
mind in the establishment of such campaign is:
•	Finding the right way to raise awareness,
	
keeping in view of the target audience
•	 Ensuring motivation to learn and pay particular
	 attention to various signals of fake
	 communications on a day to day basis
	 (particularly to counter social engineering
	threats)
26

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

Ultimately, it needs to be
“borne
in mind that mutual

6. Goal: National and International
Cooperation

cooperation, openness and
understanding is the success
to effective cyber security

i. Effective cooperation and collaboration on
cyber security on a national, European and
global basis

”

On a national level, most of the measures highlighted
earlier essentially call for national cooperation and
coordination.
Malta is no island in cyberspace. Hence, cooperation
and collaboration on cyber security needs to be
sustained both locally as well as on a European and
on a global level. A co-ordinated approach, among all
local key stakeholders in cyber security interacting
locally and overseas needs to be ensured so as to
ensure synergy of national and international effort,
knowledge and expertise within the domain.

	
	
	

Information and Communication Technologies
within and across OSCE participating states of
the related Permanent Council Decision60

•	 Any other cyber security related initiatives on
	
a European Union and/or on a wider international
	context.
Ultimately, it needs to be borne in mind that mutual
cooperation, openness and understanding is the
success to effective cyber security61.

Thus, active consideration needs to be given to:
•	 Cyber related activities, such as those conducted
	 by the European Network and Information
	
Security Agency (ENISA), which may potentially
	
involve both local public as well as private sector
	organisations
•	 EU legal requirements such as those pertaining
	
to network and information security58 which,
	
among others, calls for a body responsible for
	
coordinating NIS issues and for acting as a
	 single point of contact for cross-border
	
cooperation and communication at EU level,
	
within each Member State
•	Activities such as those undertaken by the
	 Council of the European Union on cyber	diplomacy59 which aim to foster increased global
	
cyber capacity building, as well as international
	
cooperation and judicial capacity on cybercrime
•	
	
	
	
	
	

Confidence Building Measures (CBMS) proposed
by the Permanent Council of the Organisation
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
which propose, among others, measures of
mutual
communication,
dialogue
and
collaboration on the security and use of
27
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Part Three
The Strategy

10.	CONCLUSION
10.1	The Cyber Security Strategy Model Revisited
As indicated in Figure 2, the National Cyber
Security Strategy, through its goals and subsequent
measures, shall be covering areas of governance,
legislation, regulation and voluntary commitment,
risk management and education and awareness – all
of which position cyber security on a sustainable,
long term path.

GOAL

Policy

Legislation

Devising
national cyber
security policy
and strategy
that addresses
the needs of
the various
stakeholders.

Creating
effective legal
and regulatory
frameworks
to support all
aspects of the
strategy.

Risk
Management
Controlling
risks through
organisation,
standards and
technology.

MEASURE
1(i)

Establish the necessary
key coordinating
structures

1(ii) Foster the coordination
to protect national critical
information infrastructure

Establish a
governance
Ensure clear delineation
framework 1(iii)
and communication of
roles and responsibilities
1(iv) Ensure the conduct of
a national cyber risk
assessment exercise

28
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Culture

Education

Fostering
awareness to
encourage a
responsible
cyber culture
throughout
society.

Building cyber
skills into the
workforce and
leadership
through
effective
education.

GOAL

Policy

Legislation

Devising
national cyber
security policy
and strategy
that addresses
the needs of
the various
stakeholders.

Creating
effective legal
and regulatory
frameworks
to support all
aspects of the
strategy.

Risk
Management
Controlling
risks through
organisation,
standards and
technology.

MEASURE
1(v) Ensure necessary
measures in line with
individual cyber risk
assessments by key
Public and Private
sector orgnaisations
falling within the scope
of related EU legal
requirements

Establish a 1(vi) Encourage cyber risk
assessments by other
governance
organisations not falling
framework
within the scope of
Measure 1.5
1(vii) Consolidate the IS
Framework within the
public sector
1(viii) Ensure classification of
data within the Public
Sector and encourage it
within the private sector
2(i) Establish Forum for
Internet safety and
protection of minors
2(ii)

Identify gaps and
strengthen capability to
investigate and combat
cybercrime

2(iii)

Assess and consolidate
on-line mechanism to
report cybercrime

Combat
cybercrime

29
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Culture

Education

Fostering
awareness to
encourage a
responsible
cyber culture
throughout
society.

Building cyber
skills into the
workforce and
leadership
through
effective
education.

GOAL

Legislation

Devising
national cyber
security policy
and strategy
that addresses
the needs of
the various
stakeholders.

Creating
effective legal
and regulatory
frameworks
to support all
aspects of the
strategy.

Risk
Management
Controlling
risks through
organisation,
standards and
technology.

MEASURE
3(i)

Establish a collective
approach for sharing
cyber security knowledge
and intelligence

3(ii)

Review existing
legislation and provide
measures through
legislation and regulation
to ensure relevance and
effectiveness to the cyber
world

3(iii)

Ensure the country’s
digital resilience to cyber
attack as well as the
capability to protect its
interests

3(iv)

Conduct cyber defence
exercises

4(i)

Establish regulation
and voluntary self
commitment for
guaranteeing cyber
security

4(ii)

Stimulate use of
interoperable and secure
standards on the basis of
good practice

4(iii)

Promote robust levels of
cyber security in online
public services

4(iv)

Consolidate support to
the private sector on
cyber security

5(i)

Encourage cyber security
education and training

Strengthen
national
cyber
defence

Secure
cyberspace

Cyber
Security
Awareness
and
Education

Policy

30
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

Culture

Education

Fostering
awareness to
encourage a
responsible
cyber culture
throughout
society.

Building cyber
skills into the
workforce and
leadership
through
effective
education.

GOAL

Cyber
Security
Awareness
and
Education

National and
International
cooperation

Policy

Legislation

Devising
national cyber
security policy
and strategy
that addresses
the needs of
the various
stakeholders.

Creating
effective legal
and regulatory
frameworks
to support all
aspects of the
strategy.

Risk
Management
Controlling
risks through
organisation,
standards and
technology.

Culture

Education

Fostering
awareness to
encourage a
responsible
cyber culture
throughout
society.

Building cyber
skills into the
workforce and
leadership
through
effective
education.

MEASURE
5(ii)

Explore possibility
of a Cyber Centre of
Excellence

5(iii)

Ensure relevant education
and training to public
sector staff and other
stakeholders

5(iv)

Foster application
of research and
development on cyber
security

5(v)

A strategic, targetoriented national
awareness and advice
campaign

5(vi)

Encourage ‘cyber
hygiene’ and personal
responsibility

6(i)

Effective cooperation and
collaboration on cyber
security on a national,
European and global
basis

Figure 2 – Detailed proposed strategy through the Cyber Security Strategy Model

10.2	The Way Forward

The implementation of the Strategy is expected
to involve multiple stakeholders within the public
and the private sector as well as cooperation and
coordination with civil society. It is expected to be
evaluated on a periodic basis, based upon the
progress registered from such implementation, along
with related directional developments on a national
and European Union front. The evaluation is expected
to lead to maintenance and updates of the Strategy,
leading to a subsequent new version, reflecting the
maturity undertaken in cyber security on a national
scale since its initial launch.

The launch of the National Cyber Security Strategy is
not an end in itself. It is the beginning of a continuum,
starting with implementation that is in line with:
•	Increased awareness and recognition on a
	
national scale of the importance to tackle cyber
	 security in a comprehensive and systemic
	manner
•	Related ICT, legislative, regulatory, social and
	
economic updates on a national scenario
•	Rapid developments within the cyber threat
	landcape.
31

MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

REFERENCES

BSA| The Software Alliance (www.bsa.org), European Union Cybersecurity Maturity Dashboard (2015) A Path to a Secure European
Cyberspace
Council of the European Union (7 October 2015), EU Cyber Security Strategy: Roadmap Development, Brussels
Council of the European Union (11 February 2015), Council Conclusions on Cyber Diplomacy, Outcome of Proceedings, Brussels,
6122/15
Council of the European Union (12 March 2015), Global Conference on Cyberspace 2015, The Hague Natherlands, 6181/3/5/15 REV 3
Council of the European Union (28 May 2015), Non-Paper on Fostering Cyber Security and Cyber Defence in Europe by means of
Responsible Disclosure Polices, Meeting Document, Brussels, DS 1340/15
Council of the European Union (18 December 2015), Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning
measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the Union, Examination of the final compromise text
in view to agreement, Brussels 15229/2/15 REV 2
Council of the European Union (May, 2016), Improving cyber security across the EU, http//www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/cybersecurity [Accessed on 23/5/2016]
Cyber Security Raad (CSR) Nederland (2016) Cyber Security Council (CSR) Magazine 2016, Year 2, No. 2, January 2016, Special EU
Edition
Digital Malta, National Digital Strategy 2014-2020 – Programme of Initiatives 2014, www.digitalmalta.gov.mt
Dutton, J.(June 2015), Ten essential cyber security questions to ask your CISO, http://www.itgovernance.co.uk/blog/ten-essential-cybersecurity-questions-to-ask-your-ciso/?utm_source=Email&utm_medium=Macro&utm_campaign=S01&utm_content=2015-06-22
European Commission (May 2012), European Strategy for a Better Internet for Children, Communication from the Commission to the
European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, Brussels 2.2.2013,
COM (2012) 196 final.
European Commission, Implementation of the Digital Agenda for Europe, http://daeimplementation.eu/member_states.php?id_
pillar=45&id_country=18.
European Commission (July 2012), Special Eurobarometer 390 – Cybersecurity http://ec.europa.eu/public_opinion/archives/ebs/
ebs_390_en.pd
European Commission (November 2013), Special Eurobarometer 404 – Cybersecurity http://ec.europa.eu/public_opinion/archives/ebs/
ebs_404_en.pdf
European Commission (November 2013), Special Eurobarometer 423 – Cybersecurity, http://ec.europa.eu/public_opinion/archives/ebs/
ebs_423_en.pdf
European Commission (2013), Cyber security Strategy of the European Union, An Open, Safe and Secure Cyberspace, Brussels, 7.2.2013
JOIN(2013) 1 final, http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/news/eu-cybersecurity-plan-protect-open-internet-and-online-freedom-andopportunity-cyber-security
European Commission (28 January 2015) Data Protection Day 2015: Concluding the EU Data Protection Reform essential for the Digital
Single Market, Press Release, http://europa.eu/rapid/press_release_MEMO-15-3802_en.htm
European Commission (April 2015), Connecting Europe Facility,Digital Service Infrastructures (DSI) Maturity Study, Deloitte for the
European Commission, DG Communications Networks, Content and Technology
European Commission (28 April 2015), European Agenda on Security: Questions and Answers, Strasbourg, Fact Sheet, http://europa.eu/
rapid/press-release_MEMO-15-4867_en.htm
European Commission (6 May 2015), A Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe, Communication from the Commission to the European
Parliament, The Council, The European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, SWD(2015) 100 final, http://ec.europa.eu/
priorities/digital-single-market/docs/dsm-communication_en.pdf
European Commission (28 July 2015), eGovernment Benchmark Report 2015 – Malta, https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/
news/egovernment-benchmark-report-2015-malta
European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) (2015), ENISA Threat Landscape 2014, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/
activities/risk-management/evolving-threat-environment/enisa-threat-landscape/enisa-threat-landscape-2014
European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) (2012), National Cyber Security Strategies, Practical Guide on Development
and Execution, Heraklion, Greece, https://www.enisa.europa.eu
European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) (2012), National Cyber Security Strategies, https://www.enisa.europa.eu

32
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

REFERENCES

Federal Chancellary of the Republic of Austria (2013), Austrian Cyber Security Strategy, Vienna, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/activities/
Resilience-and-CIIP/national-cyber-security-strategies-ncsss/AT_NCSS.pdf .
Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre, (2014), Cyber Security Capability Maturity Model (CMM) - Pilot, Oxford Martin School, University
of Oxford, http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/wks2015/uploads/proposal_background_paper/Cyber-Security-Capacity-Maturity-Model.
pdf
International Telecommunications Union (ITU), Cyber Wellness Profile Malta http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Documents/
Country_Profiles/Malta.pdf
Malta Communications Authority (MCA), National eCommerce Strategy (2014 - 2020), https://www.mca.org.mt/general/nationalecommerce-strategy-2014-2020
Malta Information Technology Agency (MITA), MITA Strategy 2015-2017, Version 1.0, https://www.mita.gov.mt
National Coordinator for Security and Counterterrorism - The Netherlands (2013), National Cyber Security 2 – From Awareness to
Capability, https://www.enisa.europa.eu/activities/Resilience-and-CIIP/national-cyber-security-strategies-ncsss/NCSS2Engelseversie.
pdf
Parliamentary Secretariat for Competitiveness and Economic Growth, Malta Communications Authority (MCA), eCommerce Malta,
National Strategy 2014-2020, www.mca.org.mt
Parliamentary Secretariat for Competitiveness and Economic Growth, Malta Information Technology Agency (MITA), Malta Communications
Authority (MCA), Digital Malta, National Digital Strategy 2014-2020, www.digitalmalta.gov.mt
Puricelli, R.(2015), The Underestimated Social Engineering Threat in IT Security Governance and Management, ISACA Journal, 3,24-28
Ross, S.J. (2015), Frameworks of the World Unite, ISACA Journal, 3,4-6
White and Case (2015) EU-wide cybersecurity rules nearing final agreement, Client Alert, London, UK
van’t Hof, C (2016), Helpful Hackers: How the Dutch do Responsible Disclosure, Tek Tok Uitgeverij

33
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

ENDNOTES

1.	

Particular reference is made to the:
•	 Directive 95/46/EC and the Data Protection Act (Chapter 440) of the Laws of Malta, – Both Directives
	 shall be repealed by the Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679, which shall come into force by June 2018.
•	 Network and Information Security - NIS Directive (i.e. The Directive of the European Parliament and of he Council
	 concerning measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the Union) which is
	 expected to enter into force in August 2016 for transposition into local legislation within 21 months.

2.	https://www.mca.org.mt/general/national-ecommerce-strategy-2014-2020
3.	

Adapted from the definition cited by the Cyber security Strategy of the European Union.

4.	Ross(2015)
5.	

Puricelli (2015)

6.	
Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre, (2014), Cyber Security Capability Maturity Model (CMM)- Pilot, Oxford Martin School,
	
University of Oxford, http://www.intgovforum.org/cms/wks2015/uploads/proposal_background_paper/Cyber-Security-Capacity	Maturity-Model.pdf
7.	

Refer to Note 1.

8.	Ibid.
9.	

Taking into particular consideration of the Network and Information Security (NIS) Directive. Reference is made to Note 1.

10.	

A top level national CSIRT that acts as the key technical/operational function. Among the responsibilities of such CSIRT are:
•	 Monitoring incidents at a national level
•	 Providing early warning, alerts, announcements and dissemination of information to relevant stakeholders about risks and
incidents
•	 Providing dynamic risk and incident analysis and situational awareness
•	 Establish cooperative relationships with the private sector
•	 Facilitate cooperation through use of common or standardised practices for incident and risk handling procedures

11.	

European Commission (2015), DSI Maturity Study, p.29

12.	
	
	
	
	

Which could take the form of (i) a centralised approach – whereby a national authority has in-house responsibilities with all
authorities reporting to it; OR (ii) a decentralised approach whereby roles and responsibilities are spread across a variety of actors
who coordinate together to share information and exchange on a voluntary basis OR (iii) a semi-centralised (hybrid) approach
whereby a central ministry coordinates implementation of the strategy with designated authorities having the necessary roles and
responsibilities over operators and other stakeholders and who report to the central ministry on a periodic basis.

13.	

Reference is made to Note 1.

14.	

Refers to Critical Information Infrastructure (CII) operators

15.	

One of which specifically includes the Network and Information Security – NIS – Directive, referred to in Note 1.

16.	

Refers to CII operators, Critical Infrastructure (CI) operators, Digital service providers and other potential stakeholders

17.	

Potentially enabled by National cyber simulation exercises as referred to in Measure 3.1

18.	

Reference is particularly made to the NIS Directive, referred to in Note 1.

19.	

European Agenda on Security: Questions and Answers, Strasbourg, 28 April 2015 - European Commission-Fact Sheet.

20.	

European Commission, Countering hybrid threats: EU Response – Cybersecurity, Presentation, Brussels, 19th February 2016

21.	 One example of such an arrangement is the Cyber-security Information sharing Partnership, part of CERT-UK; www.cert.gov.uk
	cisp/
22.	
	
	

Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Euroope (OSCE), Decision No. 102, OSCE Confidence Building Measures to reduce
the risks of conflict stemming from the use of ICTs, PCOEW6464, 10 March 2016, Confidence Buidling Measure No. 14. This CBM
refers to best practices of responses to common security challenges stemming from the use of ICTs.

23.	 Areas that could potentially be looked into may include risk assessment and apportioning security practices to risk levels,
	
information security planning, processes, roles and assesments of preparedness.
24.	

Reference is made in particular to Note 1.

25.	 Article 2(4) of the UN states that “All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the
	
territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United
	
Nation”. This Article prohibits any state from attacking another state however in Article 51 of the same charter states that “Nothing
	
in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self defence if an armed attack occurs against
	
a Member of the United Nations, until the Security Council has taken the measures necessary to maintain international peace and
	security.”
26.	

Reference is made to ‘Developing a Joint EU diplomatic response against coercive cyber operations’, Council of the European

34
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

ENDNOTES

	

Union, Brussels , 24 February 2016 (Doc 5797/2/16)

27.	
	

Reference is made to ‘Report of the Expert-level consultation meeting with member states on countering hybrid threats held on 19
February 2016’ Permanent Representation of Malta to the European Union.

28.	

Refers to CII operators, CI operators, Digital Service providers and other potential stakeholders

29.	
	

The preparation for the GDPR calls for a review and assessment of number of organisational, procedural, communication steps
that need to be undertaken to ensure conformance.

30.	 The latter aim may serve as good business opportunity, especially for export-oriented sectors, to strenghten their market share
	overseas.
31.	

For example Austria and the UK

32.	
	
	

One of the action items of the EU Cyber Security Strategy specifically calls for work on further development of globally interoperable
standards and their promotion for their wider use by industry. Reference is made to EU Cyber Security Strategy: Roadmap
Development – Council of the EU, Brussels, 7/10/2015.

33.	
	
	

This may imply, amongst others, the improvement of interoperability of national and international systems. Reference is made to
measure 5 as part of law enforcement legislation and policy related implementation of the Information Management Strategy
(Working Party on Information Exchange and Data Protection – Council of the EU)

34.	
	
	

Public consultation preliminary results on information and communication technologies published by the European Commission in
early 2016, reveals cyber security as being one of the areas requiring common standards if completion of a single digital market is
to be achieved.

35.	

Such as ISO 27001

36.	

Reference is made to Measure 1.7

37.	

Such as the UK’s Cyber Essentials Scheme, http://www.itgovernance.co.uk/cyber-essentials-scheme.aspx#.VaYNvLlBut8

38.	
	
	
	
	

The overall confidence to use the Internet for online services (e.g. banking, public services) has decreased from 74% in 2012 to
73% to 2013 across the EU. A proportional increase is noted in 2014 in the level of concern expressed by EU respondents in
having access to online services, through the Internet, as a result of cyber attacks. In Malta’s case, the findings indicate an increase
from 44% in 2013 to 61% in 2014. This could be potentially attributed to an increase in the proportion of the Maltese respondents,
from 7% in 2013 to 10% in 2014 who complain of related incidents.

39.	

Reference is particularly made to the NIS Directive, referred to in Note 1.

40.	
	

Potential areas that can be seen to also relate to cyber insurance, due diligence to third party with which businesses may seek
strategic relationships,etc

41.	

Including in roles such as those pertaing to law enforcement, prosecution services, the judiciary.

42.	
	

Including educating staff to understand what is harmful to an organisation and what can be done to prevent mistakes which may
lead to data breaches.

43.	 For example apart from use of visual methods, rewards, social engagement and direct feedback during everyday working life;
	
gamification may present one promising method. (Purcelli, op. cit, p.27). Other possiblities include cybercrime simulation
	
workshops as another complementary means to induce awareness on the various forms of cybercrime, who is the likely target,
	
what needs to be done to avoid falling a victim, and what action needs to be taken and to whom to refer to, in case of fallling a
	victim.
44.	 Reference is made to the European Strategy for a Better Internet for Children - Communication from the Commission to the
	
European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, Brussels
	
2.2.2013, COM (2012) 196 final.
45.	

Such as effective password management

46.	
	
	

The increased focus on environmental concerns and measures within schools in recent years may serve as a potential model for a
heightened awareness on cyber security and safety concerns and measures amongst the younger generation, which may in turn
expand further within their home environments.

47.	

With special reference to secondary and tertiary level education

48.	
	

Such as through special events, apart from teaching through games, particularly to the younger generation. Estonia for example
organises ‘Cyber olympics’ and specialised summer schools

49.	
	

A measure that is particularly required within the public sector as a domain having a wider extensive use of ICT and sensitive data,
relative to other sectors

50.	

In particular, CII operators, CI operators, Digital Service providers and other potential stakeholders

51.	 Puricelli, op.cit. This may be complemented by related policies, best practices and processes (including those on proper data
	
handling) applied within the context itself.
52.	

So as to augment and enhance needed cyber security knowledge and expertise within the sector

53.	

A similar approach has been taken by the Netherlands and Austria

35
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016

ENDNOTES

54.	
	

For example, it may be appropriate to focus, among others, on cyber security related concerns and measures that may be taken
in the applicability of cloud computing or mobile computing within office environments.

55.	

For example social media, TV, radio, etc

56.	 Apart from regular Euro barometer surveys dealing with cyber security which provide a significant insight on cyber security
	
experiences and concerns on a domestic level.
57.	
	
	

Such policy is currently mainly applied by a number of organisations – European and worldwide, and also by some EU member
states such as the Netherlands. Such framework could be enabled through self-regulation, promotion and encouragement by
government as well as the proper framework to ensure responsible vulnerability disclosure.

58.	

Reference is made to the Network and Information Security - NIS - Directive

59.	

Reference is made to the Council Conclusions on Cyber Diplomacy (2015) and to the Global Conference on Cyberspace (2015)

60.	
	
	
	
	

Permanent Council Decision No. 1039 (26 April 2012) , whereby OSCE participating States, “decided to step up individual and
collective efforts to address security of and in the use of ICTs in a comprehensive and cross-dimensional manner in accordance
with OSCE commitments and cooperation with relevant international organisations...”. This led to the adoption of a number
of Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) through Permanent Council Decision 1106 on December 3, 2013, followed by additional,
complementary CBMs adopted through Permanent Council Decision No. 1202 on March 10, 2016.

61.	

It needs to be seen within a ‘win-win’ perspective including in those areas where business related competition plays a key role.

36
MALTA CYBER SECURITY STRATEGY 2016


National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

1

Publication Date: 24th March 2014
Version: 1.0

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Abbreviations	3
Foreword by Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister	
Foreword by Edward Zammit Lewis, Parliamentary Secretary	

4
5

1.	Introduction	

6

2.	

10

The Local ICT Landscape: Challenges And Opportunities	

3.	 The Digital Malta Vision	
3.1	 Strategic Themes	
3.2	 Underlying Principles	

20
20	
23

4.	 Digital Citizen	
4.1	Goals	
4.2	 Guiding Principles	
4.3	Actions	
	
Enhancing Digital Literacy and Social Equality	
	
Access For All	
	
Stimulating Local Content	

24
24
25
28
28
29
29

5.	 Digital Business	
5.1	Goals	
5.2	 Guiding Principles	
5.3	Actions	
	
Transforming Business	
	
Sustaining Entrepreneurship and Attracting New Businesses	
	
eCommerce - Going Global	
	
Stimulating Research & Innovation	

30
30
31
34
34
35
36
37

6.	 Digital Government	
6.1	Goals	
6.2	 Guiding Principles	
6.3	Actions	
	
Citizen and Business-Centric Government	
	
Efficient Government	
	
Open Government	
	
Essential Government Services	

38
38	
39
42	
42
43
44
45

7.	 Regulation And Legislation	
7.1	Goals	
7.2	 Guiding Principles	
7.3	Actions	
	
Legislative Infrastructure	
	
Interoperability and Standards	
	
A Robust Internet	

46
46	
46	
48
48	
49	
49

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

1

2

8.	Infrastructure	
8.1	Goals	
8.2	 Guiding Principles	
8.3	Actions	
	
A Nationwide NGA Network	
	
Spectrum and Networks	
	
International and Regional Connectivity	
	
Cyber Security	
	
Government Shared Infrastructure	

50
50
51
52
52
52
54
54
55

9.	 Human Capital	
9.1	Goals	
9.2	 Guiding Principles	
9.3	Actions	
	
Building Capacity and Skills	
	
Strengthening The Workforce	
	
Regional Hub for High Quality eSkills Education and Training	

56
56
57
58
58
60
61

10.	 Attaining The Vision	
10.1	 Critical Success Factors	
10.2	Political Leadership	
10.3	Governing Body	
10.4	Operational Bodies	
10.5	Support Functions	

62
65
66
66
67
68

11.	
11.1	
11.2	
11.3	
11.4	
11.5	

70
73
73
74
75
76

Measuring Success	
Performance Targets	
Performance Indicators	
Benchmarking Exercises	
Qualitative Evaluations	
Specific Assessments	

ABBREVIATIONS

BYOD	

Bring Your Own Device

CHOGM	

Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting

CIO	

Chief Information Officer

CSIRT	

Computer Security and Incident Reporting Team

DAE	

Digital Agenda for Europe

ENISA	

European Union Agency for Network and Information Security

EU	

European Union

FDI	

Foreign Direct Investment

FITA	

Foundation for IT Accessibility

FSWS	

Foundation for Social Welfare Services

GCI	

Global Competitiveness Index

GDP	

Gross Domestic Product

ICT	

Information and Communications Technology

IPv6	

Internet Protocol version 6

IT	

Information Technology

LGA	

Lotteries and Gaming Authority

LSA	

Learning Support Assistant

MBPS	

MegaBits Per Second

MCA	

Malta Communications Authority

MCST	

Malta Council for Science and Technology

ME	

Malta Enterprise

MITA	

Malta Information Technology Agency

NGA	

Next Generation Access

NSO	

National Statistics Office

PC	

Personal Computer

QoS	

Quality of Service

R&D	

Research and Technological Development

R&I	

Research and Innovation

SME	

Small and Medium Enterprise

STEM	

Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

3

Foreword by

JOSEPH MUSCAT
Prime Minister

The advance of technology is exciting with so many opportunities. We as a country need to embrace
technology, set a path and ensure we use it well. The Digital Malta Strategy is that path.
It is important that all our people are involved in the advance of the Maltese economy. Nobody
should be left behind. This Strategy not only results from a wide consultation but also from an
underlying deep concern to involve everyone. In its pages are actions and commitments to turn us
into a digital society.
Information and Communications Technology is an important industry in itself, while just about every
other industry depends on ICT to thrive. This strategy will encourage innovation and entrepreneurial
ventures and will help all businesses remain competitive and fight their corner in the global economy.
There is also a clear message here that Malta is a good place to set up business. We not only
offer the European open market, and good links with Africa and the Middle East, but we are well
positioned on the digital superhighway. We are accelerating in the fast lane of technology and don’t
intend to take our foot off the pedal.
The road ahead is a lot clearer because of the Digital Malta Strategy. I encourage you to be part of it.

4

Foreword by

EDWARD ZAMMIT LEWIS
Parliamentary Secretary

We live in a competitive world. We can buy products from around the corner or thousands
of miles away. And what we make we can sell in the local shop or to a market of millions. This is the
global economy.
Barriers have come tumbling down. We can be continents apart yet communicate in an instant. The
world is more inter-connected and that is the way it will stay.
In both government and business there has been recognition of the need to understand new
technology and utilise it. But could we be doing more? The answer is yes. We would be foolish to
allow ourselves to lag behind our competitors.
The Digital Malta Strategy sets out how everyone can learn, broaden their skills and make good use
of technology. It sets out what we should be doing for the next few years, but it is also flexible in that
it recognises how fast technology changes and puts us on alert for future developments. The young
are born into modern technology and have never known a world without gaming, mobiles and the
Internet. Grandparents may not be so enthusiastic with gadgetry yet they still delight in video chats
with their grandchildren on the other side of the world. And everybody else is constantly living in an
online world of email, social media and the web. Government has increasingly put its services online
and there can be few businesses not powered by technology.
Technology matters to us all, and that is why the Digital Malta Strategy is so important. It is the way
forward for all Maltese.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

5

1
INTRODUCTION

ICT can empower the economy and society,
directly and indirectly. It is both critical
infrastructure and an enabling tool. Malta
recognises this and government is setting out a
vision to transform the country into one which
will prosper as a digitally-enabled nation in all
sectors of society.
This will be done through the implementation
of this strategy, which is being branded as
Digital Malta.

1.	 The term ‘digital’ within this text refers to the application
	 of information and communication technology

6

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

7

1

INTRODUCTION

The Strategy outlines three strategic themes Digital Citizen, Digital Business and Digital Government,
and these are supported by three strategic enablers: Regulation and
Legislation, Infrastructure and Human Capital.

The Strategy puts forward a suite of guiding principles and actions for
ICT to be used for socio-economic development. It sets out how ICT can
make a difference in areas such as the economy, employment, industry
and small businesses, and how it can be used for national development, to
empower citizens and transform government. It encourages everyone to
reap the benefits that ICT can bring: better education, stronger businesses,
efficient Government, sustainable economic growth and much more.
Truly, it can provide a better quality of life for the Maltese. It is essential
that the benefits of this nation’s knowledge society are enjoyed by every
citizen irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, education,
economic means or race. This will be achieved through intervention to
circumvent obstacles. There will be action to enhance digital literacy and
social equality, increase access for all and stimulate local content.

8

The ICT industry in Malta has achieved
substantial growth in the past decade.
Excluding the iGaming sector, it now accounts
for more than 5% of the nation’s GDP. Besides
being a sector in its own right, ICT also helps
other business sectors to develop and grow.
It is the enabler of the smart specialisation
areas identified in the National Research and
Innovation Strategy 2020. The Digital Malta
Strategy has been designed to foster a strong,
competitive, ICT-enabled and export-oriented
industry, able to compete globally. It will also
propel ICT further in sustaining business and
innovation, contributing to economic growth.
Innovative application of ICT is also a crucial
catalyst in the transformation of government.
Sophisticated ICT implementations carry little
value if citizens and businesses are not able to
use public services or participate in the policy
making process in meaningful ways. This
strategy advocates the re-engineering of public
services to achieve greater responsiveness
to citizen and business needs, using multiple
channels. Government will have an open
approach to communicating and sharing
information following the principles of
transparency, participation and collaboration.
Technology is continually advancing so this
strategic plan will not, in the conventional
jargon of management, be limited only to
rational policy interventions. The Digital Malta
Strategy is pragmatic, and flexible enough to
react to future developments. There is high-level
strategic direction that allows entities flexibility
in implementation.

Digital Malta is not just a Strategy to provide
national policy direction on ICT initiatives
covering 2014-2020. It also constitutes a
framework, permitting policy makers, business
leaders and entrepreneurs to take decisions now
knowing they will be supported by policy that is
responsive to the technological advances of the
coming years.
The Digital Malta vision is ambitious. The
path towards achieving it will no doubt need
refinement and, sometimes major updating,
because today’s assumptions will carry
diminished significance as events unravel and
competitive advantages shift. These refinements
will be reflected in the Programme of Initiatives
complementing the Digital Malta Strategy. Each
year a recalibration of the Initiatives will take
place after measuring outcomes and targets
achieved.
This document is the result of an extensive
consultative process. The first phase covered
a series of consultation workshops with ICT
stakeholders from the public and private sectors,
associations and other interest groups from
civil society, as well as the public at large. The
second phase included more focused discussions
with stakeholders involved in the eventual
implementation and ownership of parts of
the Strategy. This consultative approach will
continue during the life-time of the Strategy.
Digital Malta reflects the collective aspirations
and goodwill of stakeholders, structured in
the form of a national plan owned by the
stakeholders themselves. It is a journey that all
stakeholders will nurture to attain a vision of
where Malta wants to be.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

9

2
THE LOCAL ICT LANDSCAPE:
CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES

Malta has shown remarkable resilience in the
face of the sovereign debt crisis that affected
many other countries in Europe 2. Nevertheless,
the crisis cannot be ignored because of the
exposure that comes from having a small, open
economy. Indeed, in May 2013, the European
Commission recommended that Malta be
placed under an Excessive Deficit Procedure
and called for reforms in pensions, healthcare
and sustainable public finances. According
to Eurostat, the unemployment rate in Malta
ranks among the lowest in the EU and, in 2013,
the inflation rate fell to 1.38% compared to
2.72% and 2.42% in 2011 and 2012 respectively.
The rate of economic growth for 2013 was
higher than expected 3 and a growth of 1.7% is
projected for 2014 4.

2.	 Most

affected countries were southern European countries, Ireland and Slovenia.
Statement published by Standard & Poor’s on 17th January 2014.

3.	 Source:
4.

10

Source: 2014 Budget Speech as presented on 4th November 2013.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

11

2

THE LOCAL ICT LANDSCAPE

In the GCI for 2013-2014, Malta has climbed six places and now ranks number 41, out of 148
countries 5. Switzerland, Singapore and Finland are ranked in the top three positions. Compared to
other European countries, Malta is placed 17th 6. Among southern European countries, France and
Spain performed better than Malta, while Italy, Turkey, Portugal and Cyprus performed worse. The
results are encouraging, but there is no room for complacency and Malta should actively strive to
improve its competitiveness. A strong digital economy is central to any country’s competitiveness,
growth and jobs strategy. Our technological readiness is vital in this regard, with Malta ranking 16th
in the Technology Readiness index (Fig. 1).

Fig. 1

TECHNOLOGICAL
READINESS INDEX
MALTA RANKS 16
OUT OF 148 COUNTRIES.

(Source: World Economic Forum)

5.	 Source: The Global Competitiveness Report (2013 – 2014) 	http://reports.weforum.org/the-global-competitiveness-report-2013-2014/.
6.	 This ranking takes into consideration European countries that are not members
	 of the EU, such as Switzerland and Norway.

12

Universally, ICT is acknowledged as a fundamental
enabler and one of the pillars for socio-economic
development. The past ten years have seen a
rapid growth of the ICT industry in Malta. ICT
contributes circa 5.7% value-added to national
GDP 7 (Fig. 2) and employs 3.3% of a population
of 165,300 gainfully employed 8 (Fig. 3).

In 2013, the World Economic Forum ranked
Malta in 28th place (out of 138 countries) in
its Networked Readiness Index (Fig. 4), which
measures the preparedness of an economy
to use ICT to boost competitiveness and well
being. Malta also featured in fourth place for the
importance of ICT to the government vision and
in fifth place for successfully promoting the use
of ICT within the country 9. The fact that there is
political consensus on ICT strategic direction is a
strength.

Fig. 2

Source: NSO

Fig. 3

Source: NSO

7.	

Source: NSO – Gross Domestic Product. The ICT sector excludes iGaming, which is classified under a different category.
Source: NSO - Gainfully Occupied Population.
9.	 Source: The Global Information Technology Report 2013 prepared by the World Economic Forum.
8.	

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

13

2

THE LOCAL ICT LANDSCAPE
Fig. 4

NETWORKED READINESS INDEX
MALTA RANKS 28 OUT OF 138 COUNTRIES.
(Source: World Economic Forum)

TAKE-UP OF ICT
Improving ICT access and its use is an important
challenge. Although the ICT footprint is
increasing, not all homes, schools, or businesses
have taken it up or are using it as they could.
Compared to other EU countries, Malta falls
behind in the numbers using the Internet,
uploading self-created content, using Internet
banking, taking online courses, and looking for a
job or sending a job application.

14

SMEs and start-up companies need
encouragement to see ICT more as a tool for
reducing costs, innovating and gaining access
to wider markets. Citizens are expecting ICT to
play a more significant role in the next generation
of healthcare services; it shall enable patient
empowerment, and safer and more
personalised care.

Fig. 5

Source: Eurostat

People with age-related
dependencies or different
abilities need to be empowered
to stay active, live independently
and avoid institutionalisation.
All citizens, including those at
risk of exclusion (for example,
those with different abilities,
low digital literacy/eSkills), need
access to smart environments
and innovative services.
Over the past decade ICT has
become integrated in schools,
with all pupils having access
to computers and the Internet.
Yet, building capacity in
education remains a challenge.
It is important that teachers
have the skills to harness
eLearning materials. Teaching
methods need updating and
there must be sufficient digital
content for students to gain full
advantage of the benefits of ICT.

Greater effort is needed to
encourage learning among
unskilled working-age adults,
the elderly and people with
disabilities. Those without
eSkills risk not reaping benefits
from ICT, both in terms of
earnings and job prospects. ICT
offers great potential to bring
the unemployed back into the
workforce.

graduates from the ICT Institute
within MCAST, which is the
country’s leading vocational
education and training institution,
in levels 5 & 6 was 542 graduates.

HUMAN CAPITAL

Within the ICT labour market,
the low female participation rate,
the misalignment between the
ICT education curriculum and
industry needs (such as the lack of
specialised skills for the iGaming
sector) and the lack of supportive
education are serious weaknesses.
These are hampering resource
capacity, resource readiness and
innovation.

The industry, both the ICTproducing and the ICT-using
sectors, are supported by
experienced, efficient, skilled
and multi-lingual professionals.
In 2012, Eurostat reported that
Malta ranked in 23rd position
out of the EU27+ in terms of
computer skills. Between the
2007 and 2012, the average
number of ICT-related graduates
from the University of Malta was
151. The highest number of ICT
graduates from the University
of Malta was registered in 2011
with 197 – a share of 6.8% of all
graduates. During the same
period, the average number of

Work practices are flexible and
unit labour costs are generally
competitive and responsive
to market conditions. These
attributes are complemented by
a competitive tax regime.

The arrival of ‘cheaper’ skilled
competitors, particularly from
the Baltic region, Eastern
Europe and Asia, poses a new
threat to the digital industry in
Malta.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

15

2

THE LOCAL ICT LANDSCAPE

THE CHALLENGES
FOR THE LOCAL ICT INDUSTRY
Similar to other industries, it is clear that the ICT
industry in Malta is past the stage where it can
attempt to achieve higher levels of economic activity
on the basis of low labour costs. Incentive packages
are no longer sufficient in attracting investment,
because today there are equally attractive incentives
in other countries. Investors seek profitable
opportunities in countries offering the best prospects
in terms of competitiveness. If Malta is to improve
its performance in attracting FDI, greater focus on
knowledge and innovation-based investment and on
economic efficiency 10 is needed. These factors
carry the promise of sustained growth in the
wealth-generating capacity of the Digital Economy.
SMEs within the ICT industry know that their main
weakness in terms of growth is the small size of the
local market. Some of these businesses are adopting
a more outward-looking entrepreneurial culture that
is focused on exports rather than relying on shortterm advantages in the captive domestic market.
However, these SMEs face a multitude of difficulties.
The World Economic Forum has identified a list of
problematic factors for doing business in Malta. The
top three are inefficient government bureaucracy,
limited access to financing and insufficient capacity
to innovate. Malta also lacks the adequate schemes
for business angel investors 11, who are generally
needed by start-ups to take off, and by established
ICT businesses to expand. This may reflect Malta’s
entrepreneurial culture, which tends towards lower
risk or conventional “bricks-and-mortar” ventures.
Currently, most local ICT companies are software
services and hybrid solution providers and
integrators. Few qualify as software products
companies, deriving well over half of their sales from
licence fees. This may suggest that less intellectual
property, inherent in the software being developed,
can be translated into patents or copyrights.
Similarly, the lack of participation and contribution

10.	The

in open source communities limits the exposure of
Maltese skills and the potential to increase FDI.
The small size of the Maltese islands presents special
opportunities for the ICT industry. These include
the deployment of “first-in-the-world” nation-wide
projects or “test bed” projects in strategic alliances
with ICT multinational companies. Highlighting
these opportunities is important in FDI strategy,
especially when it comes to targeting ICT investment
and building partnerships. With important events
due to take place, with ‘including the hosting of
the CHOGM in 2015, Malta’s EU Presidency during
the first half of 2017 and Valletta as the European
Capital of Culture in 2018, now is the time to launch a
branding exercise.

TRUE VALUE TO CITIZENS
For the past twenty years, government has
substantially invested in ICT. Government capitalised
on the lack of complexity in Malta compared to
large countries, which often have two or more levels
and branches of administration, multiple police
forces, several courts of justice and region-based
healthcare systems. Government adopted policies
favouring the consolidation of its investments, as
well as standards to support such policies. This led
to the adoption of corporate systems and shared
services across all departments. A robust and
resilient ICT infrastructure forms the back-bone
of an interconnected government. Most of these
initiatives were implemented in partnership with
the private sector. Government also established a
strong governance framework and strengthened the
eCommerce legislative framework. More recently,
Government inaugurated a TIER III Data Centre, 12
hosting government infrastructure and information
systems. This Data Centre is the fifth data centre
in Western Europe and one of only 34 data centres
worldwide certified to reach the Tier III Facility
Certification.

term economic efficiency refers to the use of resources so as to maximize the production of 	
	 goods and services - Sullivan, Arthur; Steven M. Sheffrin (2003). Economics: Principles in action.
11.	 Business angel is an affluent individual who provides capital for a business start-up.
12.	Tier III Facility Certification verifies that each and every component within the MITA Data Centre
	 can be maintained, replaced or upgraded without disrupting the service.

16

Public projects are most fruitful when they are
owned and funded by the respective government
entity (as opposed to a more prescriptive, centralised
entity) and driven by business objectives. In order
to widen government efficiency, ICT champions are
required in important decision-making positions
and ICT strategies need to be integrated into overall
government policy.
Malta is considered one of Europe’s high performers
in delivering eGovernment. The country is constantly
improving its eGovernment platform to ensure
that the number of services available online can
increase without a proportionate increase in cost and
complexity. The platform’s architecture promotes
reusability and scalability. In the eGovernment
Benchmark 2012 report, Malta ranked first in four
benchmarks (user-centric government, transparent

government, citizen mobility, business mobility)
and second in the enablers benchmark. The 2012
report also highlighted that eGovernment users are
expecting more from the services being supplied.
Statistics from Eurostat highlight that the take-up
of public online services by citizens is below the
EU average. Malta ranked 18th (Fig. 6) in terms
of percentage of individuals using eGovernment
services and 15th (Fig. 7) in terms of enterprises
using the Internet to interact with government.
The messages are clear. Users want to interact on
everything from health and education to security and
tax. They expect government to focus on finding out
what citizens want, rather than deciding what they
need. Citizens are also expecting government to cut
red tape. The development of Digital Government
has to be hand-in-hand with efforts to reduce
bureaucracy.

Fig. 6

Source: Eurostat

Fig. 7

Source: Eurostat

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

17

2

THE LOCAL ICT LANDSCAPE

HARNESSING NEW PARADIGMS
The drive of the European Commission to accelerate interoperability, making systems and organisations
work together, poses additional challenges and opportunities. It nurtures the concept of connected
government through the alignment of departmental processes, standardisation, discovery and reuse
of ICT assets and continuous rigour in improving the level of trust in the services provided by the
public sector. Implementation of information systems within the public sector needs to incorporate
the principles and recommendations of initiatives such as the European Interoperability Framework,
European Interoperability Strategy and the semantic initiatives promoted through the European
Commission’s Joinup platform13.
National technological infrastructure is in a good shape and compares quite favourably at an
international level (Table 1). Malta has an impressive proliferation of mobile telephony and Internet
access. Similarly, there is high digital confidence by consumers. By 2012, the mobile penetration
rate in Malta reached 132%, slightly higher than the EU average of 130%14. In 2012, 77% of households
had access to the Internet – slightly higher than the EU27 average of 76%. In this regard, the main
concerns are the dependence on other countries for Internet connection, the capacity of international
connectivity, the affordability of broadband for users and the lack of local content for the web and
mobile devices15.

			
Indicator		
Malta
Mobile Penetration Rate	
Households having access to Broadband Internet	
NGA lines as a % of total fixed broadband lines	

132%	
77%	
47%	

EU Average
130%	
72%	
20%	

Malta Ranking
13th
7th
7th

Table 1

The new enterprise ICT landscape of cloud services, mobility and BYOD, and social media usage,
creates very different types of network traffic to the traditional mix of in-house client-server workloads.
Architecture and networks need to evolve to keep pace. Not only is more bandwidth required to
accommodate the workloads involved, but also time delay must be avoided. Lower latency, particularly
over wide-area networks, is needed to ensure good response times for cloud-based applications and
other services.

13.	JoinUp

is the sharing and re-use interoperability solutions for public administrations platform (http://joinup.eu).
European Commission
	(http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/sites/digital-agenda/files/DAE%20SCOREBOARD%202013%20-%20SWD%202013%20217%20FINAL.pdf).
15.	The term ‘mobile devices’ within the context of this document includes mobile phones, tablets, laptops, ultrabooks, etc.
14.	Source:

18

RAMPING UP ICT-DRIVEN
INNOVATION
The budget allocation for ICT faces competition
within government, placing an onus on departments
and entities to make the most efficient use of
both national and EU funds. Participation in
EU-funded projects by government bodies may
need increased resource and legal governance
support. Government needs to consider innovative
means to procure ICT services, explore the
feasibility of private funding and public-private
partnerships, and consider the prospect of re-using
and sharing with other countries.
In the past, R&I strategies for ICT had been
identified as a priority area. In the National Research
& Innovation Strategy 2020, ICT is now singled out
as an enabling technology for all sectors because
of its potential to innovate industries. Since Malta’s
size cannot sustain the entire R&D life cycle, efforts
should be directed to applied research that is closer
to the market16 and in existing areas of strength
that could enhance Malta’s profile as a centre of
ICT excellence. Many companies in Malta associate
R&D to the closed innovation model of larger
companies and multinationals. In comparison, open
innovation approaches are more collaborative and
leverage complementarities, and are, therefore,
more adaptive to the needs of small businesses.
Combining industrial innovation with educational
policies and focusing on areas of strength (smart
specialisation) increases the chances of Malta and
its industrial base (both ICT and non-ICT) gaining a
competitive advantage through differentiation.

MAXIMISING OPPORTUNITIES
Malta’s ICT priorities are guided by government
strategic priorities and the Europe 2020 Strategy
flagship initiatives. More specifically these tie
in with the Digital Agenda for Europe and the
Innovation Union. Malta already has strong
regulatory authorities and agencies including the
LGA, the MCA, the Government’s IT arm, MITA
and various other successful endeavours such
as the eSkills Malta Foundation, upon which it can
successfully build.
The expectations of what ICT can deliver, are
higher than ever and are likely to keep on
growing. The main elements are in place for the
industry to prosper. The challenges now are to
prioritise and implement the missing elements.
Malta’s ICT industry must emerge from its plateau
state and move quickly to exploit opportunities.
It needs to build on its strengths, minimise its
weaknesses and aim for sustained growth.

The contribution of ICT towards energy efficiency
in Malta is still marginally low. ICT offers many
opportunities to offset the costs of energy
through green ICT measures, such as, energy
efficient equipment, virtualised environments, grid
computing, cloud computing, home automation
systems and advanced virtual services.

16.	Source:

MCST 2011.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

19

3
THE DIGITAL MALTA VISION

Digital Malta is a vision for the country in 2020 when:

“Malta will prosper as a digitally-enabled
nation in all sectors of society.”
This is an exciting goal, advancing the nation’s digital economy to let business prosper and
improve the quality of people’s lives. To meet this vision there is a need to address the most
pressing strategic issues and capitalise on digital opportunities.

3.1

STRATEGIC THEMES

Digital Malta will take ICT policy development and implementation
to a higher gear, meeting the expectations of all - the Citizen and
civil society, Business and government. This vision will be enabled
by supportive regulation and legislation, sound infrastructure and
productive human capital. These building blocks will empower
stakeholders to collaborate both within and across sectors.
This is represented by Fig. 8:

20

Fig. 8

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

21

3

THE DIGITAL MALTA VISION

Digital Malta is built upon
three vertical strategic pillars
with clear goals to:

Improve the wellbeing of
Citizens and civil society.
Everyone, including vulnerable
and minority groups, will benefit
from a higher standard of living.
Basic digital skills will empower
citizens to seize opportunities
presented by technology and
digitisation. Digital services
will be affordable, secure and
accessible to all regardless
of skill and economic means.
Local digital content will be
encouraged.

Transform the way Business
operate. Digital Malta will
increase competitiveness and
boost the attractiveness of
local industry. It will promote
more start-ups, attract foreign
investment, enable strategic
alliances, encourage angel
investment and nurture niche
service providers. Business will
be encouraged and supported
to exploit (i) the opportunities
of the European Digital Single
Market, (ii) Malta’s strategic
location in the Mediterranean,
with ready access to the
European and North African
markets, (iii) Government’s
strategic alliances with
foreign ICT organisations,
(iv) opportunities to expand into
new or bigger markets.

Enhance the delivery of
Government. Better application
of digitisation will result in
reduced bureaucracy, increased
efficiency and transparency.
The public service will be closer
to civil society and enterprises,
improving the government’s
decision-making processes.
Open Government and
eDemocracy will be facilitated.
On-line government services
will be more accessible through
the use of smart devices and
mobile-friendly applications
as well as websites and
social media. Government’s
technological capabilities will
be widened to include opensource, cloud computing and
big data concepts. Information
sharing across government
systems and services will be
promoted, as will be the re-use
of public sector information by
third parties.

These vertical strategic pillars need to be supported by a suite of enabling / driving forces:

Regulation & Legislation
Of central importance will be
government’s direction and
priorities at a Strategic and
Digital Policy level. Regulation
and legislation will ensure an
empowered digital society is
realised. Good ICT governance
will be promoted, with
judicious use of resources and
participation by all stakeholders.
International best practices will
be adopted.

Infrastructure
Infrastructure services need to
be accessible, reliable, secure,
affordable and resilient. They
shall provide for disaster
recovery where appropriate.
Investment by private sector,
will ensure fast broadband,
wifi, next-generation access and
robust government information
systems architecture.

Human Capital
It is important to invest in
people to ensure the supply
of eSkills to meet the future
needs of different sectors.
Action will be taken to develop
a high quality specialised skills
base, maximising employment
opportunities, with an
emphasis on increasing female
participation and tackling
inequalities.

The portrayal of this six-pillar model, with a three-dimensional perspective, carries through to sectors
such as health, education, transport, justice, welfare and taxation, and themed areas of specialisation
identified in the ‘National Research and Innovation Strategy 2020’. The diversity of each area and
sector will be taken into account when tailoring initiatives.

22

3.2

UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES

Core principles
underpin the
implementation of the
Digital Malta vision:

1.
Ensuring all citizens
are offered the
possibility to
benefit from ICT as
a fundamental right.

2.

5.

4.
Engaging the
private sector
as an important
player in the
delivery of the
Strategy.

3.

Advocating
proactive
leadership,
and delivering
programmes that
meet needs.

Supporting national
priorities in line with
government policy,
the National Reform
Programme and the
EU obligations.

Optimising value
and accountability.

7.
6.
Ensuring
collaboration
between
stakeholders
to make the
best use of
national strategic
information
assets, encourage
synergies
and minimise
fragmentation.

8.

Encouraging a moreenvironmentally
friendly society
through greener
procurement,
implementation and
application of ICT.

Supporting and enabling R&I in identified areas
of strength, capability and centres of excellence
(smart specialisation).

10.
9.
Adopting an open and
experimental mindset,
capitalising on lessons learned
from success stories and
respecting best practices and
international standards.

Maximising
opportunities from
multiple funding
sources, including
European and
international
funding
programmes and
the private sector.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

23

4
DIGITAL CITIZEN

4.1

GOALS

Digital technologies can improve the quality of life of all citizens. Every Maltese, irrespective of age,
gender, sexual orientation, disability, education, economic means and race should grow as a digital
citizen with rights, responsibilities and abilities to access and use ICT. Digital technologies must serve
as a social equaliser, enabling everyone to participate and contribute in community activity.

Raise awareness
of how ICT can
improve daily life
and work.

Ease access to
technology and
connectivity, and
help citizens to
learn how to get
the best out of it.

Empower civil
society to become
more actively
engaged in digital
activities of the
community.

24

Build trust in the
digital world.

Use digital
technologies to
preserve, enhance
and promote
Maltese culture
and identity, and
to enable access
to quality content
and services.

The goals of the
actions under this
strategic pillar are
to:

Build social
cohesion to
overcome social,
health, age
and disability
vulnerabilities.

Provide every
citizen with the
tools to balance
work with family
commitments,
pursue leisure and
lifelong learning,
and to remain
active within the
community.

4.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.
Citizens will be supported to:
i.	 Adopt digital technologies to help with their work and improve
their quality of life.
ii.	 Create value content that can be accessed through digital means.
iii.	 Collaborate with others to make the Internet a safer place for
everyone.
iv.	 Re-use public sector information while respecting privacy
legislation, national security and the need to protect intellectual
property rights of third parties.
v.	 Be innovative in applying digital technology.
C.

When planning
and implementing
digital initiatives,
feedback from
citizens and civil
society will be
sought.

Barriers that stop
citizens from
exploiting the
benefits of the
Internet must be
removed.

B.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

25

Improve the wellbeing of
Citizens and civil society.
Everyone, including vulnerable
and minority groups, will benefit
from a higher standard of living.
Basic digital skills will empower
citizens to seize opportunities
presented by technology and
digitisation. Digital services
will be affordable, secure and
accessible to all regardless
of skill and economic means.
Local digital content will be
encouraged.

26

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

27

4

DIGITAL CITIZEN

4.3

ACTIONS

ENHANCING DIGITAL LITERACY AND SOCIAL EQUALITY
Achieving widespread digital literacy is vital for inclusivity and social cohesion. For example, digitally
competent workers and digitally competent citizens can be more successful in the job market and
contribute more effectively within the community. Those without digital competences are in danger
of falling behind.
ICT offers people the tools to overcome limitations.

28

1.

Basic level of ICT
competence

An education and awareness programme will be launched to boost
ICT competences, media literacy and confident, critical and safe use of
the Internet. The programme will be implemented at community level.
Vulnerable groups will be a major focus.

2.

Empowering the
young through a
safer Internet

Digital Citizenship will become part of the National Education Curriculum,
to equip children and youths with the abilities to interact and use the
Internet safely and intelligently. Parents and carers will be involved
together with educators and youth workers. This action will stimulate the
production of creative online content, empower the younger generation
and help create a safer environment. With the support of competent
authorities this measure will help combat cyber child abuse and
exploitation.

3.

Empowering
vulnerable/minority
groups and the
elderly

Initiate an ongoing programme designed to assist every citizen, in particular the ageing and the vulnerable to harness the potential of ICT. Appropriately equipped ICT access and training centers will be set up within
local communities to support the programme.

4.

Accessibility
and Assistive
Technology

Internet accessibility standards will be promoted to enable everyone,
irrespective of disability, to navigate and access content to access and
use of assistive technologies will be promoted and facilitated to help
independent living of the elderly and vulnerable groups. This will also
stimulate market demand for diverse, affordable technologies.

ACCESS FOR ALL
Every citizen, irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, race, economic means and
employment should have the opportunity to access and make use of ICT for their daily needs.

5.

NGA Networks

There will be promotion of NGA networks by demonstrating their
potential applications and by supporting their introduction in homes,
offices and public buildings.

6.

Free access to
wireless Internet

There will be free access to wireless Internet in public buildings, main
squares and many public spaces around the islands.

7.

Portable devices
for children

Portable devices will be provided for children, their teachers and LSAs as
part of the government’s vision of transforming formal education through
the use of digital technologies.

8.

Citizen
Engagement

Contact with citizens and between citizens will be promoted, especially
through the use of mobile apps and social networking websites.
Guidelines on social media strategies for local government and NGOs
will be developed, encouraging them to act as intermediaries in a more
participative civil society.

9.

Promote innovative
ICT applications

Innovative ICT applications that lead to a better lifestyle will be promoted
in a joint partnership with the private sector. The initiative will focus on
developments that enhance daily activities such as shopping, banking,
commuting and entertainment.

STIMULATING LOCAL CONTENT
Relevant, alluring and engaging content drives people to make use of ICT. High quality local content
will draw more people online. The Internet offers the opportunity to overcome economic limitations,
and to reach households with greater ease. The Internet also offers unprecedented opportunities to
digitally preserve heritage.

10. Developing online

A programme will be established to support and stimulate the
development of high quality online content that is appealing, educational
and culturally distinctive. Government will support joint collaborations
between public and private media providers to produce, stream or make
available local digital content.

11. Maltese language

Government will facilitate the development and distribution of language
tools to support the use of Maltese as a medium for teaching and learning,
and therefore widening take-up of ICT in the Maltese language.

content

tools

 

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

29

5
DIGITAL BUSINESS

5.1

GOALS

Malta’s businesses will have a greater chance of success if powered by ICT. Local firms must be
encouraged and supported to embrace ICT to transform themselves into digital enterprises. This will
strengthen their competitiveness and make them more export-orientated. Local ICT companies have
an important role to play in bringing about this change.

Increase and
support ICT
entrepreneurial
activities.

Support the
application of
ICT.
The goals of the
actions under this
strategic pillar are
to:

Align the supply
and demand of
eSkills.

30

Support local
businesses to be
more innovative
and offer more
competitive
products and
services.

Step up
investments
in R&I.

5.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.
Because of the country’s size and limited resources, ICT should be
used in a strategic way, as an enabler of growth and innovation, and
as a driver of economies of scale and pools of knowledge.

C.
All stakeholders
must aim to
develop an
environment
that is conducive
to business.
Partnerships
within the EU
and with other
countries in the
region should be
established to
provide a platform
for cooperation.

B.
Collaboration between the main local
players in the ICT field will be fostered.
User communities, ICT specialists and
other professionals in ICT-enabled or
supporting services will be encouraged to
pool their resources to focus on generating
products and services which are not just
technological, but adaptive and value
creating and able to serve both business
and everyday needs.

ICT-based R&I
investment needs
to be directed at
niches and sectors
of the economy
that are already
strong and areas
of specialisation
identified in the
National Research
and Innovation
Strategy 2020.

D.

G.

E.
Business
sustainability
and growth will
be facilitated,
and emergent
economic
opportunities will
be exploited.

Students and young
entrepreneurs will
be encouraged
and supported
to make use of
local innovation/
incubation centres.
F.

Local stakeholders
will be supported
to participate
in funding
programmes
supportive of local
incubation centres
and related efforts
to gain international
exposure.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

31

Transform the way Business
operate. Digital Malta will
increase competitiveness and
boost the attractiveness of
local industry. It will promote
more start-ups, attract foreign
investment, enable strategic
alliances, encourage angel
investment and nurture niche
service providers. Business will
be encouraged and supported
to exploit (i) the opportunities
of the European Digital Single
Market, (ii) Malta’s strategic
location in the Mediterranean,
with ready access to the
European and North African
markets, (iii) Government’s
strategic alliances with
foreign ICT organisations,
(iv) opportunities to expand into
new or bigger markets.

32

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

33

5

DIGITAL BUSINESS

5.3

ACTIONS

TRANSFORMING BUSINESS
Demographic change, globalisation, and more recently, the worldwide economic crisis have placed
strains on industry. There have been radical changes in societal patterns and technology, leading to
changed business models and increased competition. The business landscape is complex but industries
will always seek to identify opportunities to capitalise on. ICT can serve as an important enabler for
businesses in their transformation.

12. ICT initiatives for

Government, working with industry, will organise a series of initiatives
for sectors facing stiff competition (e.g. manufacturing, construction and
retail) to help them benefit from ICT.

13. Forum for the

A forum will be established, comprising of executives from leading local
firms and industry representative bodies. The forum’s mandate will be
to develop programmes to raise awareness about how ICT can help
industries transform themselves and become more profitable. The Forum
will discuss issues such as internationalisation, eCommerce, the use of
social networking as a business tool, the benefits of NGA networks, selfregulation, compliance with web accessibility guidelines, and supply chain
management.

14. ICT capability

A framework will be developed to enable local SMEs and co-operatives to
assess their ICT capability, human capital and ICT-enabled processes and
technology. This will be supported by ‘benchmarking’ and roadmaps to
enable these organisations to improve performance and derive increased
ICT business value from their human, technical and operational assets.

15. ICT training

Government will support enterprises by administering ICT training
programmes for their employees. The programmes will focus on unskilled
and semi-skilled workers with the objective of improving their productivity,
employability and mobility. They will also promote understanding of new
business models enabled through technology. In parallel, ICT up-skilling
and re-skilling programmes will be re-introduced.

sectors facing stiff
competition

transformation of
industries
through ICT

framework for
SMEs and
co-operatives

programmes

34

SUSTAINING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND ATTRACTING NEW BUSINESSES
The size, structure and type of ownership of many local enterprises, a tendency towards risk-aversion
and a perceived lack of funding, support mechanisms and incentives all run counter to the culture of
entrepreneurship needed for an innovation economy and towards attracting FDI.
There are a number of ICT-themed measures that can be taken to support and improve the level of
business entrepreneurial activity in Malta.

16. Supporting

Collaborating with stakeholders, government will:

entrepreneurship
Invest resources to cultivate a widespread entrepreneurial mind-set,
allowing for the launch of more ICT start-ups and young high-growth
ventures exploiting ICTs. Special emphasis will be devoted to Gozobased entrepreneurial initiatives in view of the island’s difficulties in
developing a mature ICT industry.
Facilitate improved ‘access to capital’ programmes for start-ups, micro
and small firms. This includes the setting up of a business angels
network, incentives for crowd-funding and other investor schemes.
Provide firms with incentives to deploy advanced ICT services in
unprofitable areas. These could be interest-free credit, subsidies, or
preferential tax rates.

17. Attracting FDI
in ICT

Measures will be taken to attract foreign ICT companies with the objective
of transforming Malta into a regional hub for technological cooperation
and trade. These will include:
Corporate packages, structures and business models that target FDI
in ICT ventures, start-ups, ICT educational collaborations and niche
markets such as digital games, mobile apps and other creative content.
Actively supporting SmartCity Malta and others involved in incubation
or innovation activities.

18. Cloud Computing

The government in partnership with industry will develop a strategy
on ‘Cloud Computing’ aimed at establishing Malta as a world-class hub
for the provision of cloud computing services, boosting innovation and
productivity across the digital economy.

19. Digital Gaming

Execute a Digital Games strategy in an attempt to strengthen what Malta
offers operators in the sector, including improving the specialist skills base.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

35

5

DIGITAL BUSINESS

ECOMMERCE - GOING GLOBAL
The local ICT Industry is a vital part of the economy, but it must target international markets if it is to
advance. Digital technologies provide significant opportunities for growth through exporting.
eCommerce extends boundaries. Products and services can be easily marketed and traded over the
Internet, expanding markets from neighbourhood to global. While local firms can gain substantially
from such opportunity, they also need to manage the challenges of eCommerce.
20. Widening horizons

Government, working with industry bodies, will develop policies and
incentives to:
Enable ICT clusters to flourish. Technology development, innovation
and internationalisation should be the main focus of clustering activity.
Support may include seed funding, market intelligence services, and
internationalisation services.
Exploit Malta’s eGovernment expertise to develop training and
consultancy services for other countries, especially those with cultural
or traditional links in the Mediterranean or the Commonwealth.
Promote the concept of ‘Born Global’ products and services.

21. ICT-focused
incentive schemes

Incentive schemes and voucher-based credit lines will be developed to
enable local SMEs and co-operatives to benefit from free or subsidised
consultancy services. This will help them adopt digital technology and
innovative business models to both establish themselves online and
internationalise their products and services.

22. eCommerce
markets

Government and industry stakeholders will:
Develop measures to sustain and grow the local eCommerce market
on both the supply and demand sides.
Implement initiatives to assist and further drive the adoption of
eCommerce by business sectors with the potential to capitalise on
web technologies and penetrate foreign markets.
Identify opportunities for Malta to attract business activities that operate
or support global eCommerce markets.

23. Emerging
electronic
transactions

36

Government, working with payment providers, will develop an education
programme to explain and promote different forms of electronic
transactions and emerging monetisation models. The programme will
explain business models, technologies, costs and risks.

STIMULATING RESEARCH & INNOVATION
Besides being a sector in its own right, ICT is a horizontal enabler for R&I. There needs to be
continued investment in both ICT infrastructures, and innovation using ICT, as identified in the
National R&I Strategy 2020. The two lines of investment are mutually reinforcing, as investment in ICT
infrastructure and human capital provides the way for ICT-based innovation.
24. Harnessing
international R&I
funding

Local ICT companies need to take advantage of pan-European and
international R&I funding frameworks and industrial development funding
opportunities. To help in this, government will:
Provide logistical and brokerage support.
Offer incentives to companies to invest time and human resources
researching and developing innovative products, processes, and
services and new marketing methods.

25. Open innovation

Government will set up a multi-stakeholder Innovation Centre to offer
incentives for ICT-themed R&D, idea-generation, incubation and innovation
with a view towards co-creation and open innovation. Its purpose will be
to:
Create an environment to enable open collaboration by enterprises,
academic institutions and public bodies wishing to engage in R&I
activities, particularly projects requiring testing and validation in reallife settings.
Attract multi-national enterprises, contributing different technological
platforms and expertise.
Provide mentorship, specialised training and an alternative ICT
incubation facility for young entrepreneurs, students and startups wishing to test and demonstrate their innovations in a live
environment.
Serve as a networking hub and a show-case of locally developed talent
and products.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

37

6
DIGITAL GOVERNMENT

6.1

GOALS

Government services should be designed around the requirements of the people. They need to
be more user-friendly and less burdened by red tape. They should be accessible through multiple
channels. The concept of service to the community needs to be expanded so that government
involves citizens and businesses in decision-making processes. In addition, public data, which
government creates, designs and manages, should be openly shared across entities and authorities,
and externally with third parties for their commercial re-use. This will prevent costly duplication and
re-invention.

Simplify existing
digital public
services.

Extend
government
transparency and
eDemocracy.

Promote higher
take-up of
eGovernment
services.

Enable fact-based
decision-making.

Make government
services accessible
through mobile
devices.

38

The goals of the
actions under this
strategic pillar are
to:

Encourage the
re-use of public
sector information.

Engage citizens
and increase
participation.

Stimulate greater
collaboration
between
international
partners,
government, local
enterprises and
citizens.

6.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.

B.

Online government
services will be
organised around
customers’ needs.
Businesses,
local councils,
community
learning centres
and the public
will have a role
in designing and
implementing
new or enhanced
services.

Online government services will meet EU
regulations and embrace EU building blocks
(e.g. eSignatures) in support of the EU
Single Market.

Government will use technology, coupled
with business process reengineering,
to rethink and redesign resources. A
simplification of services will reduce paper
use, cut costs and lower the risks that arise
from cash handling.

New or enhanced
government
services will be
designed for the
web and mobile
platforms. Most
ICT services should
function equally
well across different
platforms and
devices.

Government will
equip leaders and
decision makers to
be better tuned in
taking advantage
of technological
advancements.
Similarly,
government will
take measures to
cater for the needs
of digital employees
and to capitalise on
their digital skills.

Ministries and
entities17 will own
their ICT projects.
Only horizontal
services, shared
across government,
will be centrally
owned and
delivered.

Government will
have an active
online presence
through social
media.

Government
systems will be
regularly assessed
for efficiency and,
when necessary,
be enhanced or
replaced.

G.
H.
F.

Government
employees will
be supported by
innovative, flexible
technologies and
associated business
models.

Government will adopt open standards,
encouraging the exchange of information and
innovation, while seeking healthy competition
and lower costs. Equal consideration will be
given to open source and closed source software.

E.

Corporations,
Agencies and commercial
public sector entities in which
government has a majority
shareholding, and are not 	
listed on the stock exchange.

D.

C.

16.	Authorities,

I.
J.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

39

Enhance the delivery of
Government. Better application
of digitisation will result in
reduced bureaucracy, increased
efficiency and transparency.
The public service will be closer
to civil society and enterprises,
improving the government’s
decision-making processes.
Open Government and
eDemocracy will be facilitated.
On-line government services
will be more accessible through
the use of smart devices and
mobile-friendly applications
as well as websites and
social media. Government’s
technological capabilities will be
widened to include open-source,
cloud computing and big data
concepts. Information sharing
across government systems and
services will be promoted, as will
be the re-use of public sector
information by third parties.

40

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

41

6

DIGITAL GOVERNMENT

6.3

ACTIONS

CITIZEN & BUSINESS-CENTRIC GOVERNMENT
Government will expand its eco-system of easily accessible digital services and content. Customers
will be provided with a seamless and integrated web experience across government websites, and on
mobile technologies too.
Online services will be more cost effective with wider benefits for customers.
	
26. Transacting with
government

Citizens and organisations will be able to transact securely with
government using different channels. The take-up of online services will be
encouraged by making them easy to use and available on mobile devices.
These services will include online forms, ePayments and eInvoicing.

27. One-stop shop

Citizens and businesses will benefit from a one-stop shop concept.
They will be able to access services from their home or office, or
through agents.
Practices such as ‘one face to government’, ‘one-login’,
‘service-personalisation’ and ‘ask-only-once’ will be the driving force.

42

EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT
Using technology and business process reengineering, Government will reduce bureaucracy and
implement leaner processes, with the aim of offering new and improved public services.
Public officials will be empowered to share knowledge and collaborate within government and across
agencies to serve customers better.
28. Collaborative
Government will work with stakeholders to:
digital environment
Assist departments and entities to adopt technology that integrates
cross-departmental services.
	 Facilitate the use, management, retention, preservation and archiving
of born-digital records so that these remain accessible and usable.
	 Protect corporate knowledge, and improve data security, integrity,
accessibility, traceability and archiving. Industry standards for records
and information management and business classification scheme will
be adopted.
Strengthen knowledge sharing.
Enable workflows.
Provide collaborative environments for unified working across multiple
devices and media-types.
29. Business Analytics

Public officials will be equipped with the right tools to analyse
government data. This will support decision-making and help identify
gaps and opportunities.

30. ICT Innovation in
procurement

Government will use its position as a major procurer to stimulate demand
for innovative ICT. It will encourage collaboration between local players
and, as an early adopter, it will act as a showcase for locally-produced
technology.
Innovative policies will improve procurement cycles and deliver better
value. The eProcurement framework will be extended to cover eOrdering,
eInvoicing and ePayments.

31. Strategic Alliances

Government will continue to explore opportunities for cooperation,
alliances and partnerships with reputable multinationals so as to maximise
the return on investments and adopt international best practices.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

43

6

DIGITAL GOVERNMENT

OPEN GOVERNMENT
Government is committed to be transparent, and to encourage public engagement. Online
engagement will increase using digital technologies such as social media and crowd-sourcing,
soliciting contributions from many. Communications and eParticipation activities will be designed
to promote better development of public policy, increase public trust and encourage citizens and
businesses to collaborate with government.
In line with EU regulations, government will open up public data for use by private organisations and
the general public whilst promoting innovative application of such data.
32. Open
Government
Data

In addition to facilitating the sharing of data across public administration,
government will make public sector information available to all as
allowed by law. Structured data will be published in a way that it can be
interlinked (Linked Open Government Data) and become more useful to
Government entities, third parties and respective systems.
The adoption of Big Data technologies will allow complex data to be
processed, improving decision-making in critical areas such as finance,
healthcare, transport, utilities and the environment.

33. eDemocracy

44

Government is committed to using ICT to encourage citizens to take part
in democratic decision-making. Initiatives will be implemented to enhance
the visibility, transparency and accountability of government.

ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES
Government entities providing social initiatives and essential services such as education, healthcare,
welfare, justice, tourism, utilities and transport may require ad hoc ICT programmes. The input of ICT
should be seen as an opportunity to serve customers and cut across boundaries.
34. Sector specific
ICT programmes

Sector specific ICT programmes or strategies will be developed by
collaborating with all stakeholders. There will be a philosophy of
cutting across ministerial boundaries. The ultimate aim will be to secure
consistency, buy-in, effectiveness in implementation and value to citizens
and businesses as the ultimate beneficiaries.

35. eLearning

A complete ICT infrastructure will be provided for educators, students
and parents, encouraging a digital mindset and widening learning
opportunities. Educators will be supported to make full use of eLearning
platforms and other digital learning technologies.

36. eHealth

Citizens will be empowered by providing them with secure and easy
access to their health records. Similarly, healthcare providers will gain
secure and seamless access to the patients’ records.

37. Transportation

Government will use digital technology in land, sea and air transport.
Special emphasis will be given to the deployment of Intelligent
Transportation Systems for improving road safety, traffic flow and incountry travel.

 

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

45

7
REGULATION AND LEGISLATION

7.1

GOALS

Digital Malta requires a supportive regulatory and legislative framework.

Continuously
enhance the
regulatory
framework in Malta
as it affects ICT,
whether directly or
indirectly.

Protect rights and
freedoms.
The goals of the
actions under this
strategic enabler
are to:

7.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.
ICT legislation and policy will be nondiscriminatory and technology neutral. It will
foster value creation, innovation and growth
in all industries and society at large.

46

Ensure that
the Internet
remains universal,
innovative and
open.

B.
Legislative measures and regulatory
strategies pursued in other jurisdictions
will be monitored and evaluated to see if
local legislation needs improving.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

47

7

REGULATION AND LEGISLATION

7.3

ACTIONS

LEGISLATIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
The benefits of the Internet are best reaped when regulatory and legal frameworks ensure universal
access, transparency, openness and economic sustainability. Specific actions will be required.
	
38.

Digital
Single Market

Malta will seek to maximise the benefits and opportunities deriving from
legislation adopted within the EU. As at 2014, these include:
The Data Protection Framework.
The Electronic Identification and Trust Services Regulation.
The Information Society Directive.
Regulation concerning the European single market for electronic
communications and achieving a Connected Continent.

39. Radio spectrum
for mobile data
communications

The regulatory framework will ensure sufficient radio spectrum for mobile
data communication while safeguarding the availability of spectrum for
public security.

40. Digital legislation
and contracts

Government will work with stakeholders to:
Have a process whereby new laws, once enacted, are digital by default.
Evaluate existing laws to align them with the Digital Malta vision.
Enable contracts, which are subject to the formalities of the Notarial
Profession and Notarial Archives Act, to be in digital format from the
outset.

41. Infrastructure
based competition

48

The legal and regulatory framework shall support investment in new
broadband networks and stimulate infrastructure-based competition.

INTEROPERABILITY AND STANDARDS
The fast pace of ICT development requires continuous review of industry standards. Government has
a leadership role to play. It must ensure standards and policies produce optimal returns on investment
in systems architecture and data that is open and interoperable.
42. Standards and
Good Practice

Government will collaborate with stakeholders to support and promote:
National and EU cross-border interoperability.
ICT standards based on industry best practices.
Green ICT.

A ROBUST INTERNET
Challenges posed by advancements such as cloud services, portability and social media require
legislation that safeguards and protects citizens’ data without inhibiting entrepreneurial initiative and
creativity. Intellectual property and content will be protected through a regulatory framework that
will also ensure a level playing field for enterprises to thrive and prosper.
43. Cyber Crime
Legislation

Government will review existing legislation to ensure relevance and
effectiveness in the cyber world, for example in dealing with cyber
bullying.

44. Digital legislation
and regulation

Government will provide measures to maintain privacy, safety and security
while surfing, transacting and operating on-line. Legislation will address
several matters:
Safeguarding intellectual property rights.
Patents.
Sensitive and personal information.
Cloud Computing and data ownership.
Contentious content.
Net Neutrality.
Vendor Lock-in and Exit Management strategies.
Online contracts and license agreements.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

49

8
INFRASTRUCTURE

8.1

GOALS

Communications and information infrastructure is required to support government targets for
economic growth and social development.

Provide the
necessary
foundations for
a sound and
prosperous digital
ecosystem.

The goals of the
actions under this
strategic enabler
are to:

Introduce
cost effective
and timely
technologies
to keep Malta
competitive and
vibrant as a digital
nation.

50

Implement
infrastructure
that is resilient,
performs and
capable of
supporting future
demands.

Provide safe,
accessible and
trustworthy
services, while
protecting
fundamental
rights, freedom
of expression,
personal data and
privacy.

8.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.
Government and the private sector will invest in network
infrastructures and technologies, keeping up with national and
international developments, providing Maltese citizens with platforms
that are accessible, reliable and secure.
D.

High quality
service and
affordable access
will be driving
forces.

B.

The design and
implementation
of government
network
infrastructure
and applications
will be based on
open standards
to ensure
interoperability
and collaboration
at national and
international level.

Government will
lead by example,
adopting high
quality standards
and embracing
important
technology
principles such
as abstraction,
loose coupling,
cohesiveness and
generality.

C.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

51

8

INFRASTRUCTURE

8.3

ACTIONS

A NATIONWIDE NGA NETWORK
The revolution in communications technology in the past few decades has created enormous social
and economic opportunities. Technology is always evolving, and new investments are required if the
country is to keep abreast of developments and provide industries and citizens with future-proof
communications infrastructure.
	
45. Supporting NGA
Networks

The MCA regulatory regime will foster innovation and investment to
support the development of NGA Networks in Malta. It will have the
objectives of ensuring competition and affordable access to these
networks.

46. Broadband Supply
and Demand

The MCA will monitor supply and demand of broadband, anticipating
change, supporting development and facilitating the deployment and
development of NGA Networks in Malta.

47. IPv6

Government will promote deployment of the IPv6 protocol, for identifying
and locating computers on networks and traffic routes across the Internet.
This acknowledges the need to prepare for an ‘Internet of Everything,’
where all objects connected to the web must be uniquely identified.

SPECTRUM AND NETWORKS
Malta will have an infrastructure that guarantees citizens and business opportunities for
socio-economic development.

52

48. Network
Infrastructure
Sharing
Opportunities

A framework to facilitate and regulate network infrastructure sharing
will be established to safeguard the long-term growth and development of
the telecommunications sector, while ensuring healthy competition.

49. Safeguarding
Networks

Risk mitigation measures will be introduced to safeguard networks from
damage caused by third-party operations.

50. Quality of Service

End-user interest in the electronic communications sector will be
safeguarded by improving the quality of information available to them and
ensuring service providers meet contractually agreed QOS levels.
.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

53

8

INFRASTRUCTURE

INTERNATIONAL AND REGIONAL CONNECTIVITY
Submarine cables are the backbone of the communication networks and the life blood of the Maltese
economy. A better connected environment will contribute greatly to the economy’s efficiency and
provide business opportunities.
51. International
Connectivity

Opportunities for new submarine cable routes, connecting Malta to
mainland Europe or North Africa, will be evaluated. The objective will be
to strengthen the country’s connectivity to international networks and
hubs, increase resilience and improve investment.

52. Connectivity
between Malta
and Gozo

A feasibility study will determine optimal data connectivity between
the Maltese islands with a particular focus on resiliency and bandwidth
between Malta and Gozo. The outcome will guide the type and extent of
investment to be made.

CYBER SECURITY
The Internet’s huge footprint, its impact on society, and the ever increasing range of threats and
vulnerabilities present a continuous need to protect cyberspace. A Critical Infrastructural Programme
is needed with the participation of government and the private sector to ensure that confidentiality,
integrity and availability of information and cyber systems are preserved. Cyber attacks pose a
relentless threat to Malta’s national security, economy and society. Cyber security is also crucial
for protecting human rights, freedom of opinion, information and association, and for enforcing
obligations in cyberspace.
53. National Cyber
Security Strategy

Government will enforce a National Cyber Security Strategy, to help
ensure a safer Internet, the protection of critical infrastructure, the rule of
law, accountability and privacy. The main pillars will be designed to:
Combat Cyber Crime. Law enforcement agencies will identify gaps and
strengthen their capability to investigate and combat cybercrime.
Strengthen National Cyber Defence. Public and private entities will be
guided and assisted in strengthening their cyber defence capabilities.
Secure Cyberspace. Higher levels of trust will be instilled through
awareness programmes and the delivery of trustworthy, ICT-enabled
services that assure confidentiality, integrity, availability and privacy.
Build Capacity. The skills and educational frameworks required will be
identified and developed.

54

GOVERNMENT SHARED INFRASTRUCTURE
Government will continue incrementally to enhance its infrastructure. It will draft a roadmap, based on
emerging business and technological requirements, to design and implement the next generation of
government ICT infrastructure.
54. Authentication
Services

Government will:
Simplify the process for authentication to access its online services.
Work with banks and other organisations to develop a national
electronic identity card as a trusted source of authentication.
Bring authentication services into alignment with EU standards and
allow fellow European citizens access using their national electronic
identity.
Develop a roadmap, aligned to likely technological advancements and
emerging needs.

55. Trust Services

Services will be provided to facilitate the creation, verification, validation,
handling and preservation of electronic signatures, electronic seals,
electronic time stamps, electronic documents, electronic delivery services,
website authentication, and electronic certificates.

56. Modernisation and
Re-Use

Government will accelerate the modernisation of ICT implementations,
maintain a cartography of ICT assets, and promote the re-use of mature
local and EU established ICT building blocks using the Enterprise
Architecture & Road-mapping Initiative of MITA.

57. Foresight

Foresight projects will be launched to identify how important ICT driven
themes, such as identity and social networking, can be best used for
stimulating economic growth.

58. Incubation of novel Government will pilot ICT projects and embrace those that modernise
ICT driven solutions public administration or promote economic growth. This will be delivered
in collaboration with various EU-led programmes.

 

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

55

9
HUMAN CAPITAL

9.1

GOALS

The ability to develop and deploy educated and able workers is crucial in a knowledge economy. The
skills and capacities that reside in people and that are put to productive use are important to create
economic value in all sectors of society.

Help educators
embrace
technology
and adopt new
teaching methods
for developing
the skills of their
students.

The goals of the
actions under this
strategic enabler
are to:

Exploit e-content
and technology
to attract more
people into
lifelong learning.

56

Align the supply
of STEM skills with
the requirements
of industries.

Develop a
specialised
skills base for
spurring business
development.

Increase female
participation in
STEM education
and the workforce.

9.2

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

A.

B.

The STEM skills
and employment
policy must
be an integral
chapter in national
educational and
employment
strategies and
policies.

Individuals will be encouraged to take up ICT,
and ICT-enabled professions, as a career.

A stimulating
educational
environment is
needed to inspire
creativity and
innovation and
encourage young
adults to harvest
their entrepreneurial
skills.
C.

The application of digital technologies needs
to be embedded in all university, college
and school courses, and non-formal learning
environments.

D.
Government must
address labour
market shortages
and industry
requirements,
ensuring there
is synergy
between industry,
educational
institutions and
other stakeholders.
E.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

57

9

HUMAN CAPITAL

9.3

ACTIONS

BUILDING CAPACITY AND SKILLS
New skills are needed in an era of rapid economic and social change. Globalisation and technological
advancements will drive the future. Students must be equipped to manage emerging technologies,
and the jobs and professions that will emanate from them.
	
59. Integrating critical
skills across
educational
and formative
experiences

Government will fund access to resources, training and industry readiness
programmes. These will include apprenticeships and internships, and help
with imparting skills such as problem-solving, computational thinking,
and data and information processing. Soft-skills and aptitudes, such as
intellectual curiosity, flexibility and e-entrepreneurship, will be woven
into the fabric of formal education. Programmes will be supported and
promoted in and after school, on and off campus, throughout the year,
across public and private institutions. Projects and spin-offs, arising
from such programmes, will be celebrated, for example through annual
competitions.

60. Building national
Through educational institutions and industry, government will support
the creation of specialist educational pathways, addressing labour market
capacity in
specialist skills-sets requirements. Government will develop the curriculum and provide
technical materials.
61. Investing further
in and celebrating
the education
community

Educators will be given opportunities and incentives to explore crossdisciplinary approaches, embracing technology. Innovative teaching and
achievements will be celebrated. Local best practice will be shared.

62. Awareness-raising Government will resource awareness campaigns about careers requiring
on eSkills education eSkills and the education opportunities available. Target audiences will
be identified by collaborating with stakeholders. Action will be taken to
and careers
minimise the gender imbalance in the technology field.

58

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

59

9

HUMAN CAPITAL

STRENGTHENING THE WORKFORCE
Globalisation puts Malta’s workforce in direct competition with workers in every corner of the globe.
Competency requirements are constantly changing at every level of business. Investment will take
place to strengthen the workforce. Government will:
63. Improve
employability
through lifelong
learning and career
support

Work with educational institutions, community organisations and industry,
to develop a Lifelong Learning Programme, with eSkills at its core, so
as to improve worker employability in the digital economy. There will
be a support framework of career guidance, financial incentives, flexible
learning paths and intense use of eLearning. Special emphasis will be
assigned to vulnerable groups.

64. Update the
eCompetence
Framework

Continue investing in the Standards for ITalent, as the eCompetence
framework for providing defined, visible career streams for individuals in
the ICT profession. The framework will be updated to reflect European
and international developments standards and reflect feedback from
stakeholders. Industry and educational institutions will be encouraged
to adopt this eCompetence framework. The standards will be promoted
as occupational guidelines with easy-to-use tools for professionals and
aspiring practitioners to map their skills portfolio with career development.

65. Promote
excellence in the
professionalism
of the local ICT
workforce

Support mechanisms to develop excellence in the ICT workforce. The
building blocks of the profession include the eCompetence framework, a
foundational body of knowledge, ethics and education. Other supporting
components will be explored, such as profiling tools, registers and
portfolios for practitioners.

66. Quality assure for
ICT educational
programmes

Ensure the adoption of quality assurance processes in the delivery of ICT
educational and training programmes so that the content and materials
are in line with industry demands. This will be managed through the
educational authorities.

67. Validate technology Validate informal technology-related experience and education of ICT
-related experience practitioners. This will be done jointly with the educational authorities and
educational institutions.
and education

60

68. Increase female
participation

Identify the main challenges women face to participate in the ICT
workforce. Incentives will be offered to employers to recruit more women.

69. Take informed
action

Monitor demand for eSkills. Qualitative and quantitative research will be
shared with stakeholders for co-ordinated action when needed.

REGIONAL HUB FOR HIGH QUALITY ESKILLS EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The global marketplace necessitates global citizenship. Internationalised educational institutions can
provide students with global perspectives of disciplines and careers. Growth in international STEM
education and training will broaden outlooks, strengthen educational institutions’ offerings and,
ultimately, improve national competitiveness.
70. eSkills education
in other critical
sectors

Government will embark on a plan to internationalise the Maltese eSkills
educational sector to attract education tourism. This will capitalise on
the success of the English-language educational tourism initiative. The
plan will address the need to enhance Malta’s attractiveness as an eSkills
training destination, deal with deficiencies, and provide investment
support for educational providers.

71. International
ICT education
programmes

Incentives will be provided for the creation of joint international ICT
education programmes at vocational, academic and executive levels.
These programmes will be carried out in co-operation with reputable
international educational institutions.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

61

10
ATTAINING THE VISION

Everybody needs to work together to make
Digital Malta a success. The Strategy is
an enabler for the different bodies and
organisations to achieve their objectives and
as such should be deemed as an integral part
of their operations.

62

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

63

10

ATTAINING THE VISION

Fig. 9 depicts the role of the different stakeholders.
Fig. 9

MAIN STAKEHOLDERS
POLITICAL CHAMPION
Office of the Prime Minister

POLITICAL LEADERSHIP
Ministry/Parliamentary Secretariat
responsible for the Digital Economy

GOVERNING BODY

SUPPORT
FUNCTIONS

Planning
Finance
Monitoring
Marketing
Auditing

OPERATIONAL BODIES

Malta Information Technology Agency
Malta Communications Authority
Malta Enterprise
Foundation for IT Accessibility
ICT MALTA
Business Champion
Citizen Champion
Ministry/Entity CIOs
Chamber of Commerce
eSkills Malta Foundation
ICT Forums

64

Ministry
responsible
for Finance

10.1

CRITICAL SUCCESS FACTORS

A suite of factors are critical for attaining the vision:

Strong political
leadership, solid
governance and
commitment by
all stakeholders
to implement the
initiatives.

Continuous
engagement with
stakeholders.

Adequate
funding.

Good programme
and project
management
throughout the lifecycle of initiatives.

A culture of sharing
of resources
(accompanied by
supportive business
frameworks) across
and between
stakeholders.

Re-skilling of
government
employees and
creating new
structures and
roles.

Government,
business,
organisations, leaders
and individuals
being more creative
and open to
experimentation with
new technologies
and methods.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

65

10

ATTAINING THE VISION

10.2	

POLITICAL LEADERSHIP

Within the public sector, the goals identified in
Digital Malta will be considered as high priority and
strategic direction will be given.
Politically championing the Strategy at the most
senior level, and securing ownership from the
respective areas, is fundamental for success.
The Cabinet, headed by the Prime Minister, will
champion the attainment of Digital Malta through
political will, supportive policy and adequate funding.
The Ministry / Parliamentary Secretariat responsible
for the Digital Economy will provide focus on
ultimate goals, overall governance and the
engagement of relevant parties.
Senior figures within government will own and be
accountable for actions and initiatives.

10.3	

GOVERNING BODY

Strong governance will support the leaders. It will
enable management of the dependencies and
interactions between players and mitigate the risks
associated with adopting different policies and
implementing various actions. Stakeholders need to
work closely together to overcome challenges.
A governing body, representing the primary
stakeholders, will be established. It will report to the
Ministry / Parliamentary Secretariat responsible for
the Digital Economy and will:
	 Oversee the implementation of the Strategy
ensuring the necessary commitment,
	 engagement and collaboration of stakeholders.
	 Provide leadership, mentorship and support to
stakeholders in understanding and implementing
the Strategy.
	 Approve a programme of initiatives within the
public sector on a yearly basis.
	 Oversee progress and provide direction on major
ICT investment.
	 Develop a framework and tools to measure the
benefits gained from the digital experience, and
make the results accessible to all.
	 Market and promote the Strategy and associated
actions and initiatives.
	 Celebrate and share success-stories.
	 Re-calibrate the Strategy as necessary.
A sub-committee will be setup to determine yearly
ICT budgets and to ensure savings from ICT projects
are reinvested in ICT.

66

10.4	

OPERATIONAL BODIES

The Digital Malta Strategy will be supported by a yearly ‘Programme of Initiatives.’ Initiatives will be identified
and scoped by the respective owners and submitted to the Digital Malta Governing Body in the form of a
business case for approval and prioritisation. Once this is done, the respective owners will take measures to
secure the necessary funding and to drive implementation in line with the direction provided.
In this regard, at different stages of the Strategy timeline, various organisations, entities and individuals will be
involved. A number of new functions will be established:

	 ICT Malta will be set up on
similar basis to Finance Malta.
It will be led by the business
community and will have
objectives to:
	 Promote and market Malta
to attract ICT investments;
	 Assist the local ICT industry
to penetrate the global
market;
	 Promote ownership of
the Malta brand among all
stakeholders;
	 Synergise business
sectors to create ICT
areas of strength (e.g.
software development),
to contribute towards
economic growth.
	 Citizen and Business
Champions. Two individuals
will be appointed to champion
‘Digital Citizen’ and ‘Digital
Business’ activities. They will
be the central contact point
for initiatives within these two
strategic themes and will lead
their implementation.

	 A Digital Society Stakeholder
Forum will be established
for civil society, government
and industry to discuss how
ICT is impacting society, and
how it can be used to create
better social cohesion. The
Forum will look at eInclusion,
digital citizenship and Internet
safety; it will propose policy to
government and encourage
industry self-regulation.
	 A Forum for Internet Safety
and minors will be set up to
bring together the MCA, the
Commissioner for Children,
FSWS, the Education
Directorates, the Malta Police
Force, industry representatives
and others to share knowledge
and to monitor developments.
The Forum will put forward
policy ideas and represent
Malta on European bodies
working in this field.

	An FDI multi-stakeholder
committee will be responsible
for designing corporate
packages specifically
targeting ICT multinationals.
Special attention will be
reserved for promoting
and facilitating knowledge
economy investments in Gozo.
The committee will include
stakeholders from public,
private and independent
bodies from both Malta and
Gozo.
	An entity will be responsible
for the coordination of
national cyber security
efforts. This entity will be also
responsible for the creation,
maintenance and governance
of the National Cyber Security
Strategy.
	A Data Governance Council
will provide strategic direction
for data related issues and
decisions.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

67

10

ATTAINING THE VISION

In addition, where appropriate, the remit, the strategic direction, the structures and the operations of existing
organisations will be aligned in such a way so as to be in a stronger position to implement this Strategy:

	 The MITA will continue to
drive government’s ICT policy,
programmes and initiatives
within Malta.
	The MCA will, in line with its
regulatory remit, continue to
ensure an optimal environment
for the deployment of multiple
high speed fixed and mobile
networks, while promoting
public and business uptake
	 of ICT.
	 ME and MCST will promote
Digital Malta in their spheres.
	The FITA will be given
a stronger role to build
and promote accessibility
standards across government
and industry.

10.5	

	The Ministry and Entity’s Office
of CIOs will be responsible for
developing, managing and
implementing the Ministry’s ICT
strategy and an ICT programme
plan as directed by Digital
Malta. The Office of CIOs will
be strengthened to ensure that
these Offices are in a position to
successfully deliver.
	 Structures responsible for
combating cyber crime
and supporting Critical
Information Infrastructure
Protection, especially those
relating to CSIRT Malta, will
be reinforced. Furthermore,
National early warning cyber
security advisory capability
and National law enforcement
agencies will be strengthened.

	The Malta Internet Governance
Forum will serve as the national
platform for the protection of
human rights and democracy
on the Internet. The Forum will
be open to all local stakeholders.
Its aims will include activities to
promote data protection and
privacy; coordinate cooperation
against cyber crime and
maximise the Internet’s potential
to promote democracy and
cultural diversity.
	 eSkills Malta Foundation Government will transform
the eSkills Alliance into a
purpose foundation giving it
more independence, strength
and agility.

SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

The execution of the Strategy also requires the creation or strengthening of a number of support functions
including:
	 Planning and budgeting, monitoring and auditing, and marketing of the Strategy.
	 Foundation of bodies with a similar aim of increasing proliferation of ICT across the island.
These support functions will work in liaison with the operational bodies to reap the benefits that result from
continuous collaboration.

68

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

69

11
MEASURING SUCCESS

Digital Malta has bold goals in order to deliver a
better quality of life and sustained economic growth.
The Strategy will be measurable and transparent,
allowing all stakeholders to track its success.
It will continually be monitored by the Governing
Body. Reports will be presented on qualitative and
quantitative assessments and progress achieved.
The monitoring will also guide the re-calibration of
Digital Malta, so that it remains equipped to satisfy
evolving needs.

70

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

71

11

MEASURING SUCCESS

Fig. 10

MEASURING
DIGITAL MALTA
An open and participatory approach
will be adopted when measuring success.

PLANNING

CO-ORDINATION
with budget processes,
other strategies and
stakeholders

MONITORING

IMPLEMENTATION

PARTICIPATION
ensure participation
and build trust

72

11.1	

PERFORMANCE TARGETS

The following DAE targets are adopted for the Digital Malta Strategy:

Target	By

33% of SMEs selling online	
Fast broadband (>30 MBPS) coverage available for

2015
all	

2020

50% of households taking up broadband subscriptions having >100 MBPS	

2020

20% of population buying online across-borders	

2015

50% of population buying online	

2015

60% of disadvantaged people using Internet regularly	

2015

75% of population using Internet regularly	

2015

15% or less of the population have never used the Internet	

2015

100% increase in ICT R&D Public Spending	

2020

50% of population using eGovernment	

2015

25% of population using eGovernment and returning forms	

2015

Malta has already achieved the ‘Broadband coverage for all by 2013’ target.

11.2	

PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

The success of the Strategy will be measured using three performance indicators:
	

Existing benchmarking exercises carried out by reputable independent
organisations.

	

Qualitative evaluations, identifying the extent of implementation and benefits
delivered to citizens, business and government.

	

Assessments, surveys and audits analysing specific areas.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

73

11

MEASURING SUCCESS

11.3	

BENCHMARKING EXERCISES

Various international organisations carry out studies to measure and compare
the performance of different countries. These measures will also be used by the
Governing Body to gauge success:

Eurostat - Information Society Indicators
	 Percentage of Individuals using the Internet for
interaction with public authorities
	 Percentage of Individuals using the Internet for
interaction with public authorities, by type of
interaction
	 Percentage of enterprises using the Internet for
interaction with public authorities
	 PC and Internet penetration rates for business of
different sizes
	 Percentage of Enterprises having purchased
online

	 eGovernment development index
	 Online Service index
	 Telecommunication infrastructure index
	 eParticipation index

European Commission - eGovernment
benchmarking
	 User-centric government
	 Transparent government

	 Percentage of Enterprises having received orders
online

	 Citizen mobility

	 Size of ICT workforce

	 Key enablers

	 Contribution of ICT sector to GDP

	 Effective government

	 Contribution of ICT enabled sectors to GDP

	 eGovernment use

	 Total eCommerce export (or percentage of
enterprises exporting through eCommerce)
	 Total percentage of eCommerce trade within the
local market

World Economic Forum - The Networked
Readiness Index

	 Business mobility

INSEAD & Singaporean Human Capital Institute –
Global Talent Competitiveness Index
	Enablers
	Attract
	Grow

	 Environment index

	Retain

	 Readiness index

	 Labour and Vocational

	 Usage index

	 Global Knowledge

	Impact

74

United Nations - eGovernment Indices

11.4	

QUALITATIVE EVALUATIONS

In addition to quantitative measures, qualitative criteria will be used to assess whether or not:

	 ICT has contributed towards improving the economic competitiveness of the country.
	 ICT has brought sustained improvements in the quality of life of Maltese citizens.
	 ICT has enabled sustainable economic growth in business.
	 The Maltese public are constructively engaged in realising Digital Malta.
	 Government is more efficient and more open.
	 Areas of ICT skills shortages have been addressed.
	 Malta has a sound legal basis and regulatory framework for digital growth.
	 The Maltese ICT community has critical mass, access to resources and supporting infrastructure.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

75

11

MEASURING SUCCESS

11.5	

SPECIFIC ASSESSMENTS

The rhythm of achievement will be monitored by closely observing specific areas.
This will be done through assessing:

	 The readiness and use of ICT by local entrepreneurs to determine levels of access, skills, perceptions and
technology foresight.
	 The extent of use of ICT by SMEs in Malta.
	 The supply chain level of automation by industry sectors.
	 The readiness of logistics services.
	 The entrepreneurial culture and ICT integration within local business.
	 The readiness of Maltese enterprises to internationalise.
	 The attributes of non-users, particularly in relation to access, affordability and perceived uses. Focus will
be on working adults, the unemployed and the elderly.
	 The use of ICT, perceptions and competence levels of the Maltese.
	 The level of satisfaction of users of online government services.
	 The National Cyber Security Strategy based on considerations issued by International
Organisations e.g. the ENISA 18.
	 The realisation of benefits and value for money audits.

18.	ENISA,

76

“National Cyber Security Strategies — ENISA” Report/Study, 2012.

National Digital Strategy 2014 – 2020

77

78

