----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                  CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE  
                                                                                  AUSTRIA  
                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                       

  
BACKGROUND  
Total Population: 8 429 000                                                                    Internet users, percentage of population: 80.62%  
(data        source:        United         Nations         Statistics        Division,         (data source: ITU Statistics, December 2013)  
December 2012)  
                                                                                                
1.    CYBERSECURITY  
        
1.1  LEGAL MEASURES  
        
1.1.1         CRIMINAL LEGISLATION  
Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instrument:  
-  Penal Code.  
  
1.1.2         REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE  
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments:  
-  E-Commerce Act                                                                             - The Austrian E-Government Act  
-  Federal Electronic Signature Law                                                           -  Federal Act on the Protection of Personal Data  
- Austrian Signature Ordinance.                                                                 
  
1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES  
  
1.2.1 CIRT  
Austria  has an officially recognized  government  CIRT  (GovCERT.AT) and a military CERT (milCERT) operated by the  
Defence Agency (Abwehramt) and the Command Support Centre (Führungsunterstützungszentrum) of  the  Federal  
Ministry of Defense and Sports (BMVLS).  
   
1.2.2 STANDARDS  
There  is  no  available  information  regarding  any  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  cybersecurity  
frameworks for implementing internationally recognized cybersecurity standards .  
  
1.2.3 CERTIFICATION  
There  is  no  available  information  regarding  any  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  cybersecurity  
frameworks for the certification and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals.  
  
1.3  ORGANIZATION MEASURES  
  
1.3.1 POLICY  
Austria has officially recognized a  National ICT Security Strategy in 2012 and an Austrian cybersecurity strategy in  
   2013. 
  
1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE  
The  implementation  of  the  measures  adopted  by  the  federal  government  in  March  2013  in  order  to  increase  
national cyber security are monitored by the Cyber Security Steering Group (consisting of members  liaising with the  
National  Security  Council  as  well  as  the  cyber  security  experts  of  all  ministries)  which  provides  the  national  
governance roadmap for cybersecurity in Austria.  
  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY  
The  Cybersecurity  Steering  Group  and  the  Cyber  Crime  Competence  Center  (C4)  of  the  Federal  Ministry  of  the  
Interior  (BM.I)  are  the  national  coordination  and  reporting  bodies  for  combating  cybercrime  and  the  officially  
recognized agencies responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap in Austria.  
  
1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING  
Every year the government publishes a cybersecurity report used to measure cybersecurity development in Austria.  
        
1.4  CAPACITY BUILDING  
  
1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT  
The  Austrian  IT  Security  Handbook  contributes  to  the   research  and  development  (R&D)  program/project  for  
cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or the public sector.  Also  
the Austrian security research funding program ( KIRAS) is a national program to promote safety research in Austria.  
KIRAS supports national research projects with the aim of increasing the security of Austria and its people.  
  
1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  
The  European  Cybersecurity  Month  in  Austria  provides  educational  and  professional  training  programs for  raising  
awareness with the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in higher education and promoting certification  
of professionals in either the public or the private sectors.  
   
1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  
There  is  no  available  information  regarding  the   exact  number  of   public  sector  professionals  certified  under  
internationally recognized certification programs in cybersecurity.  
  
1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION  
The number of certificates accredited by national accredited bodies against ISO/IEC 27001 was 28 in 2012.   
  
1.5  COOPERATION  
  
1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION  
To  facilitate  sharing  of  cybersecurity  assets  across  borders  or  with  other  nation  states,  Austria  has  officially  
recognized partnerships with the following organizations:   
-Coalition Warrior Interoperability eXploration, eXperimentation, eXamination, eXercise (CWIX) - The exercise held in  
Poland in June 2013 provided an opportunity to perform technical and operational tests with deployment-oriented  
systems, services and applications.   
-  Cybersecurity Platform (CECSP)  was founded in May 2013 on the initiative of  Austria and the Czech Republic  and  
aims  to  enable  the  information,  best  practices,  lessons  learned  and  know-how  sharing  about  cyber  threats  and  
potential or (un)successfully carried out cyber-attacks.  
  
1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION  
The  ICT Security Portal  is a measure defined in the Austrian Cybersecurity Strategy and is officially recognized as the  
national or sector-specific program for sharing cybersecurity assets within the public sector. It was launched as an  
inter-ministerial  initiative  in  cooperation  with  the  Austrian  economy.  The  aim  of  the  Web  platform,  which  went  
online  in  2013,  is  to  raise  awareness  and  it  serves  as  a  valuable  source  for  information  and  communication  for  
different target groups.  
  
  
  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP  
Austria has  officially  recognized the following national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets  
within the public and private sector.   
- The  Private Public Partnership Program for Critical Infrastructure Protection (APCIP) with the objective to develop a  
comprehensive  strategy  and  detailed  measures  and  to  bring  all  relevant  public  and  private  organizations  and  
infrastructure operators under one common conceptual roof.  
-The  CERT Alliance which  enhances  cooperation of Austrian CERTs in the public as well as the private sector. Its aim  
is to bundle available resources and to use the joint know-how optimally in order to ensure maximum ICT security.   
- The Austrian Trust Circle (ATC) founded in 2010 is an initiative of GovCERT.AT  and the Federal Chancellery in order  
to   build   confidence   between   the   responsible   persons   and   organizations   in   individual   sectors   of   strategic  
infrastructures so as to facilitate the exchange of security-related experience and ensure that swift and joint action  
will be taken in concrete cases.   
  
1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  
Austria  is  a  member  of  the  ITU-IMPACT  initiative  and  has  access  to  relevant  cybersecurity  services.  To  facilitate  
sharing  of  cybersecurity  assets  across  borders  or  with  other  nation  states,  Austria  has  officially  recognized  
partnerships with the following organizations:   
- UN                  -  NATO                         -  EU                 - OSCE                -  ENISA                         -  FIRST  
- Trusted Introducer                                                        - The European Forum for Member States (EFMS)  
-  Participation in NATO exercise Cyber Coalition 2013.  
  
2.    CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION  
  
2.1  NATIONAL LEGISLATION AND STRATEGY  
Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments:  
- §64(1)4a and §207a* of the Criminal Code.  
-  Law on Obscene Publications and on the fight to protect the youth against moral hazard*.  
  
The National ICT Strategy Austria considers campaigning on a social media guide for parent in its objective of  
awareness-raising.  

2.2  UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL  
Austria  has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the  Convention on the  
Rights of the Child.  
Austria  has  acceded,  with  no  declarations  or  reservations  to  articles  2  and  3,  to  the  Optional  Protocol  to  The  
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.  
  
2.3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT  
The Computer Emergency Response Team of Austria (CERT.at (*)) does not provide specific information on child  
online protection.  

2.4  REPORTING MECHANISM  
Illegal online content can be reported at www.stopline.at (*).  

  
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx  
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx  
Last updated on 22th January 2015  

  
