----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                    CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE  
                                                                                      BRAZIL  
                                                                                                                                                                                  

                                              
  
BACKGROUND  
Total Population:   198 361 000                                                           Internet users, percentage of population: 51.60%  
(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012)                          (data source: ITU Statistics, December 2012)  
                                                                                            
  
1.    CYBERSECURITY  

        

1.1  LEGAL MEASURES  

        

1.1.1        CRIMINAL LEGISLATION  
Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments:  

-  Law 8,137/1990, Art. 2                                    -  Law 8,069/1990, Art. 241                                 -  Law 9,100/1995, Art. 67   

-  Law 9,296/1996, Art. 10                                   -  Law 9,504/1997                                           -  Law 9,983/2000    

-  Law 11,829/2008                                           -  Law 12,735/2012, Art.4                                   -  Law 12,737/2012  
  
1.1.2        REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE  
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments:  

- Administrative Rule no.  35/2009                           - Administrative Rule no.  45/2009                          - Administrative Rule no. 34/2009    

-  Decree 3,505/2000                                         -  Decree 7,845/2012                              

-  Resolution No. 614/2013, Art. 53                          -  Resolution No. 617/2013, Art. 47    
  

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES  

  

1.2.1 CIRT  
Brazil has officially recognized a national CERT, a government CSIRT and a sector specific SCIRT.  

1.2.2 STANDARDS  
Brazil     has     officially      approved         national       (and      sector      specific)      cybersecurity          frameworks           for    implementing  
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards through three instruments:  
-Normative  Instruction  GSI  no  1/2008  which  organizes  the  Management  of  Information  and  Communications  
Security in the Federal Public Administration, direct and indirect, among other provisions. 

-Normative Instruction  GSI  no  2/2008  which  provides  for  accreditation  on  security  for  the  treatment  of  classified  
information at any level of confidentiality in the under the Federal Executive Branch.  

-Normative Instruction GSI no 3/2008 that defines minimum parameters and standards for cryptographic algorithms  
for encryption of classified information under the Federal Executive Branch.  

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION  
The  Complementary  Standards  offer  a  cybersecurity  framework  for  the  certification  and  accreditation  of  national  
agencies and public sector professionals.  
Complementary Standard no. nº 17 establishes guidelines for the certification and accreditation for information and  
communication security professionals of the direct and indirect Federal Public Administration.  
Complementary  Standard  no.  nº  18  establishes  guidelines  for  training  of  the  information  and  communication  
security professionals of the direct and indirect  Federal Public Administration.   
   
                                                                                                                                                                              1  
  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

1.3  ORGANIZATION MEASURES  

  

1.3.1 POLICY  
Brazil has an officially recognized national cybersecurity policy through the following instruments:  

-  Decree 6703/2008 -  National Defense Strategy                                                -  Information Technology Strategy, 2013-2015   
- Anatel -  Public Consultation no. 21, on a regulation for critical telecommunication infrastructure protection. This  
regulation establishes measures to be undertaken by telecom operators to promote risk management processes  
related to security and performance of network and telecommunication services. It also promotes coordination  
among telecom operators for disaster relief.   
- Administrative Normative Rule no. 3,389 of the Ministry of Defense, which establishes the Cyber Defence Policy    
- Critical Information and Communication Infrastructure protection  

  

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE  
Brazil does not currently have any national governance roadmap for cybersecurity.   

  

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY  
Brazil does not have an officially recognised national or sector-specific agency responsible for implementing a  
national cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap since responsibilities are shared among the following several  
entities:   
-  National Defense Council in charge of planning and conducting the policy and strategy for national defence   
- Cabinet of Institutional Security  of the Presidency of the Republic which proposes guidelines and strategies for the  
cybersecurity in the scope of the Federal Public Administration, by means of the Communication and Information  
Safety Department   
- Cyber defense Centre of the Brazilian Army                                                                -  Brazilian Intelligency Agency   
-  Ministry of Justice –  Department of Federal Police   

  

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING  
Brazil has officially recognized the following national or sector-specific benchmarking exercises or referential used to  
measure cybersecurity development.  
- TIC Kids Online 2012 - Survey on Internet Use by Children in Brazil   
-  ICT Households and Enterprises  - Survey on the Use of Information and Communication Technologies in Brazil   
- Survey on the Use of Information and Communication Technologies in Brazil   
-  The  Bureau  of  Information  Technology  Audit  (Sefti/TCU)  conducts  benchmark  exercises  periodically  to  measure  
cybersecurity development in government sector.  
  
1.4  CAPACITY BUILDING  

  

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT                                                                             
Brazil   has   officially        recognized   the   following   national   or   sector-specific   research   and   development   (R&D)  
programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or  
the public sector.  
- ABNT which defines the Brazilian versions of ISO IEC standards (e.g. ABNT NBR ISO/IEC 27000 series)   
-  CEPESC  -  Research  and  Development  Center  for  the  Security  of  Communication  –  that  develops  scientific  and  
technological research applied to projects related to the secu rity of communications including technology transfer.  
-  CAIS  RNP  –  Security  Incident  Response  Team  –  which  acts  in  the  detection,  solution  and  prevention  of  security  
incidents  in  the  Brazilian  academic  network,  besides  creating,  promoting  and  spreading  security  practices  in  
networks.    
  
  

                                                                                                                                                                            2  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

  
1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  
The  Brazilian  Internet  Steering Committee  (CGI.br)  is  responsible  for  recommending  technical  standards  and  best  
practices related to the Internet, and promoting security best practices. In order to  perform its activities the CGI.br  
created the  Brazilian Network Information Center (NIC.br) which implements these efforts through:  
-  Brazilian national (CERT.br) which offers professional training programs.  
-  Best practices Portal BCP.nic.br - a portal to promote Current Best Practices (BCPs) for system administrators.  
- Antispam.br - a portal for awareness about spam, with contents to both end users and system administrators.  
-   InternetSegura.br  -   a  portal  with  links  to  all  currently  known  awareness  materials  developed  by  Brazilian  
organizations.  
- SaferNet  Brazil works with prevention, providing information to the users and organizing awareness campaigns, but  
it also functions as an internet complaint center for crimes against human rights.   
- CEGSIC  which offers specialization course in Management of Information Security and Communications.   
  
1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  
Brazil has numerous public  sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification programs in  
cybersecurity.  However it did not conduct a survey to gather the exact statistic.  

  

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION  
Brazil has numerous certified government and public sector agencies  under internationally recognized standards in  
cybersecurity.  However it did not conduct a survey to gather the exact statistic.  

  

1.5  COOPERATION  

  

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION  
To  facilitate  sharing  of  cybersecurity  assets  access  borders  and  with  other   nation  states,  Brazil  has  officially  
recognized a partnership with the Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism (CICTE)  by enhancing the exchange  
of information via the competent national authorities.    
  
1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION  
 The  SegInfo  blog  is  the  officially  recognized  national  or  sector-specific  program  for  sharing  cybersecurity  assets  
within the public sector since it  offers to its readers  the main news  related to  information security,  and frequent  
articles by renowned professionals in the information security area. The site aims to collect, catalog and spray events,  
news,  vulnerability  warnings  and  most  relevant  projects  in  the  information  security  area,  among  countless  other  
aspects.  

  

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP  
Brazilian national CERT (CERT.br) participates in several initiatives for sharing cybersecurity assets within the public  
and private sector.  
-  SpamPots  Project  which  gathers  data  related  to  the                              -   Distributed Honeypots Project which objective is to  
abuse of Internet infrastructure by spammers in order to                                  increase the capacity of incident detection and trend  
identify malware botnets etc                                                              analysis in the Brazilian Internet Space.  
                                                                                           
-  Tentacles  Project  :  a  Cooperation  Agreement  between  the  Brazilian  Federal  Police  Department  and  FEBRABAN  
(Brazil´s Bank Federation) in which the Brazilian Federal Police  Department receives on line information on almost  
the  entire  electronic  frauds  committed  inside  Brazil  borders,  allowing  the  continuous  feeding  of  the  National  
Electronic Frauds Database and the quick generation of statistics, crime analysis and strategic planning, among other  
means known to be effective in combating this type of illicit act.  
  
  

                                                                                                                                                                              3  
  

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

  
1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  
Brazil is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services.   Brazil participated  
in the following cybersecurity activities.  
-  Latin American and Caribbean Regional CSIRTs Meeting organized by  LACNIC.  
-  Brazilian Federal Police participates in the I-24/7 global police communications system developed by Interpol to  
connect law enforcement officers, including cybercrimes:   
CERT.br is a member of FIRST.  

  

2.     CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION  

  

2.1  NATIONAL LEGISLATION   
Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments:  
-Articles 218, 218A, 218B* of the Criminal Code, amended and included by the Law n. 12015/2009.  
-Articles 240* and 241A-E* of the Law n. 8069/1990, amended by the law n. 11829/2008.   
  
2.2  UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL  
Brazil  has  acceded,  with  no  declarations  or  reservations  to  articles  16,  17(e)  and  34(c),  to  the  Convention  on  the  
Rights of the Child.  
Brazil  has  acceded,  with  no  declarations  or  reservations  to  articles  2  and  3,  to  the  Optional  Protocol  to  The  
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.  

  

2.3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT  
The  Brazilian national CERT  (CERT-BR*)  provides for information*  on internet security in its website.  Also there is a  
Website* gathering Brazilian initiatives on internet security, built by the  Brazilian Internet Steering Committee*.  

2.4  REPORTING MECHANISM  
Online illegal content can be reported in the helpline on child and adolescent pornography in internet created by the  
government: www.disque100.gov.br* Available as a telephone number in: 100.  
SaferNet Brasil provides information on internet safety and space for complaints in its website.  
The Federal Police* has a dedicated space to receive denouncements at its website, which can also be made by its  
email address denuncia.ddh@dpf.gov.br.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx  
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx  
Last updated on 25th November 2014  

  

  

  

                                                                                                                                                                                         4  
  
