----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                         CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE  
                                                                                         CROATIA  
                                                                                                                                                                                           

                                                    
  
BACKGROUND  
Total Population:  4 387 000                                                                   Internet users, percentage of population: 66.75%  
(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012)                               (data source: ITU Statistics, December 2012)  
                                                                                                
  
1.    CYBERSECURITY  

        

1.1  LEGAL MEASURES  

        

1.1.1         CRIMINAL LEGISLATION  
Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments:  
- Croatian Criminal Law (January 2013)  
  
1.1.2         REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE  
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments:  
-  Law on Information Security 2007                                                                   -  Law on Protection of Personal Data 2003                                    
-  Law on Ratification of conventions on cybercrime 2002                                              -  Law on Electronic Document  
-  Law on the Security and Intelligence System 2006                                                   -  Law on Security validation                        
 - Ordinance on the manner and deadlines for the implementation of measures for protection safety and integrity of  
networks and services 2012  
-  Regulation on Information Security Measures 2008                                        
   

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES  

  

1.2.1 CIRT  
Croatia has an officially recognized national CERT in accordance with the Information security law and its main task is  
processing  of  incidents  on  the  Internet.  Croatia  has  also  a  government  CERT  ZSIS  which  is  responsible  for  state  
authorities,  local  and  territorial  (regional)  governments,  legal  personnel  with  public  authorities  and  legal  and  
physical person who have access to, or handle classified and unclassified information.  

  

1.2.2 STANDARDS  
Croatia       has     officially      approved          national        (and      sector      specific)       cybersecurity           frameworks           for     implementing  
internationally  recognized  cybersecurity  standards.    They  can  be  found  under  the  guidelines  set  by  Information  
Systems Security Bureau  and by Office of the National Security Council.   
  

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION  
Croatia  has  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  cybersecurity  frameworks  for  the  certification  and  
accreditation of national agencies  and public sector  professionals. They  can be  found under the guidelines set by  
Information Systems Security Bureau  and by Office of the National Security Council.  
  
1.3  ORGANIZATION MEASURES  

  

1.3.1 POLICY  
Croatia  is  currently  in  progress  for  adoption  of  a  national  strategy  on  cybersecurity.  The  Office  of  the  National  
Security Council  is responsible for the preparation of this document. Other bodies involved in the preparation of this  
document are: Information Systems Security Bureau, Croatian Regulatory Authority for Network Industries, Ministry  

                                                                                                                                                                                       1  
  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

of  Interior,  Ministry  of  Foreign  and  European  Affairs,  Croatian  national  computer  emergency  response  team,  
Croatian National Bank, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Public Administration,  
Security and Intelligence Agency, Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia.  

  

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE  
Croatia does not currently have any national governance roadmap for cybersecurity.   

  

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY  
The  Office  of  the  National  Security  Council  is  the  officially  recognized  institution  responsible  for  implementing  a  
national cybersecurity strategy, policy and roadmap.   

  

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING  
Croatia does not have any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking exercises or referential used  
to measure cybersecurity development.  
  
1.4  CAPACITY BUILDING  

  

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT  
Croatia  does  not  have  any  officially   recognized  national  or  sector-specific  research  and  development  (R&D)  
programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or  
the public sector.  
  
1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  
Croatian  national  CERT    provides  a  national  or  sector-specific  research  and  development  (R&D)  program  through  
many  presentations and easily accessible documents.  It also  informs people about threats on Internet, gives  them  
statistics about the most common problems concerning cybercrime  and also give them advice  about  how to protect  
themselves.  Center for Information Security (CIS) also creates documents on topics in information security that will  
be useful to the public,  develops educational materials intended for the public, organizes events to raise awareness  
of information security for the public and for specific groups, cooperates with all the media to raise awareness about  
information security, brings together young  people interested in information security and educates  them and also  
prepares them for professional engagement in the field of information security.  
  
1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  
The Information Systems Security Bureau (ZSIS) and the national CERT  are public sector professionals certified under  
internationally recognized certification programs in cybersecurity.  

  

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION  
The Information Systems Security Bureau (ZSIS) is the central state authority responsible for the technical areas of  
information security of the state certified under internationally recognized standards in cybersecurity.  

  

1.5  COOPERATION  

  

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION  
The authorities in Croatia work closely with European Network and Information Security Agency ( ENISA), as a body  
of expertise, whose  main task is to help the European Commission, the Member States and the business community  
to  address,  respond  and  especially  to  prevent  network  and  information  security  problems  and  thus  Republic  of  
Croatia works with other European countries regarding security incidents.  
1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION  
Croatia does not have any  officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets  
within the public sector.   

  

                                                                                                                                                                                       2  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP  
Croatia does not have any  officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets  
within the public and private sector.  

  

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  
Croatia  is  a  member  of  the  ITU-IMPACT  initiative  and  has  access  to  relevant  cybersecurity  services.  Croatia  also  
participated at conference on Strategic Priorities on Cybercrime  (Dubrovnik, February, 15th 2013) also participating  
were Albania, Bosnia and  Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Turkey and Kosovo in cooperation with the  
Council of Europe and the European Union.  

  

2.     CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION  

  

2.1  NATIONAL LEGISLATION   
Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instrument:  
- Articles 163-165* of the Criminal Code.  

2.2  UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL  
Croatia  has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the  Convention on the  
Rights of the Child.  
Croatia  has  acceded,  with  no  declarations  or  reservations  to  articles  2  and  3,  to  the  Optional  Protocol  to  The  
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.  

  

2.3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT  
The Croatian national  CERT  provides specific information for parents in its guide about online safety.  

2.4  REPORTING MECHANISM  
The Croatian national  CERT  provides the following email address to report computer incidents: ncert@cert.hr  
The Center for Missing and Exploited Children provides an online form to report illegal content.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx  
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx  
Last updated on 13th November 2014  

  

  

                                                                                                                                                                                              3  
  
