CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE
ECUADOR
BACKGROUND
Total Population: 14 865 000

Internet users, percentage of population: 40.35%

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012)

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013)

1. CYBERSECURITY
1.1 LEGAL MEASURES
1.1.1

CRIMINAL LEGISLATION

Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments:
- Draft Penal Code
1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments:
- Electronic commerce
-Electronic signatures
-Messages of information Law
1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES
1.2.1 CIRT
ITU conducted a CIRT Assessment for Ecuador in 2013. Ecuador has an officially recognized national CIRT (EcuCERT).
1.2.2 STANDARDS
Ecuador has officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards through the following instruments:
-The “Comite Tecnico de Ciberseguidad”, a local working group, dealing with cybersecurity, which gathers together
many public and private organizations.
- Decree 166 of the National Secretariat of Public Administration establishes that all entities of the Central Public
Administration must comply with technical standards for information security.
1.2.3 CERTIFICATION
Ecuador has officially approved INEN, the national (and sector specific) cybersecurity framework for the certification
and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals which helps to ensure compliance with
citizens' rights relating to security and works on technical standards which are applied at the national level.
1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES
1.3.1 POLICY
There is no available information regarding any officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy.
1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE
There is no information available regarding any recognized national governance roadmap for cybersecurity.
1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY
Ecuador has officially recognized the following agencies responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity
strategy, policy and roadmap in Ecuador:
1

- EcuCERT
- The National Secretariat of Public Administration, through its Directorate for Technological Architecture and
Information Security, promotes the use and implementation of an e-Government platform and oversees
management of the security of information through the promulgation of regulations, decrees and ministerial-level
agreements.
- The Ministry of Intelligence through its Counter-intelligence and Info-communications Section and its Strategic
Technological Operations Center, implements security measures within the central government entities, and is
responsible for the formation of a national incident response capability.
1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING
There is no information available regarding any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking
exercises or referential used to measure cybersecurity development.
1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING
1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT
The Technological Crimes Investigations Unit and the National Police receive relevant technical training from higher
education institutions within the country, as well as international organizations and are the officially recognized
national and sector-specific research and development (R&D) programs/projects for cybersecurity standards, best
practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or the public sector.
1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
Ecuador’s private and public institutions provide various types of awareness programs, industry talks, conferences,
training programs and workshops on cybersecurity, for the general public as well as for public and private sector
employees.
CEDIA is a National Research and Education Network whose mission is "to promote, coordinate and develop
advanced computer and telecommunications networks to boost technology in innovative scientific research and
education." Its members are: Universities, Polytechnics, research centers, public and private organizations.
The ESPOL offers a Master’s degree in Applied Computer Security (MSIA) which is a new academic option considered
by the ESPOL of high national priority and which represents the efforts of a group of senior specialists.
The Judicial Police of Ecuador has created a Facebook page in order to promote awareness raising and prevention of
cybercrimes through publication of complaints, security alerts, information campaigns, technical assistance, and
cybersecurity tips for citizens.
The Ministry of Intelligence has also created a project called “Promoting a culture of intelligence”, which aims to do
precisely that through democratization and more robust citizen participation.
1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION
Ecuador has numerous public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification programs
in cybersecurity. However it did not conduct a survey to gather the exact statistic.
1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION
Ecuador has one certified government and public sector agencies certified under internationally recognized
standards in cybersecurity (ISO 270001).
1.5 COOPERATION
1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION
There is no information available regarding any officially recognized national or sector-specific partnerships for
sharing cybersecurity assets across borders with other nation states.
2

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION
There is no information available regarding any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing
cybersecurity assets within the public sector.
1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP
Ecuador’s Technological Crimes Investigations Unit has begun to create spaces for increased inter-institutional
cooperation between public and private sector entities, both within the country as well as at the international level.
Emphasis has been placed on promoting the exchange of information and cooperation, particularly in the
investigation of electronic fraud and child pornography.
1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
Ecuador is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services and has
participated in the following cybersecurity activities:
-Participation in the Latin American Working Group on Cybercrime of INTERPOL
- FIRST
-LACNIC
-CERT CC

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION
Please note that in Ecuador a child is a person under 14
2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION
- Article 528.6* of the Criminal Code.
-Articles 52, 69* and 72* of the Childhood and Adolescence Code, January 2003.
2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL
Ecuador has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the
Rights of the Child.
Ecuador has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
The National Council on Childhood and Adolescence is the responsible organ for the protection of children but it has
no current project on online protection.
2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM
Ecuador does not have an officially recognized agency that offers an avenue for the reporting of incidents related to
child online protection.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx
Last updated on 05th November 2014

3

