 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

 HUNGARY 

 



Flag of Hungary.svg 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 9 950 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 72.64% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instrument: 

- Criminal Code. 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments: 

- Act No CVIII/2001 on Electronic Commerce and Information Society Services 

- Act No C/2003 on Electronic Communications 

- Act No. XC/2005 on the Freedom of Information by Electronic means 

- Act No. LXIII of 1992 on the Protection of Personal Data and Disclosure of Data of Public Interest Government 
Decision No. 1139/2013 (21 March) on the National Cyber Security Strategy of Hungary 

- Act L of 2013 on the Electronic Information Security of Central and Local Government Agencies 

- Act No. XXXV/2001 on Electronic Signatures. 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Hungary has an officially recognized national government CERT (GovCERT-Hungary) and other specialized CERTs such 
as CIP CERT (operated by General Directorate for National Catastrophe Management). 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Hungary has an officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity framework for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standard htrough the Infosec and Crypto Division that performs official 
approval, monitoring and control functions regarding electronic systems handling classified information, operated 
and managed by governmental organizations and companies. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

Hungary has officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for the certification and 
accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals through the Product Certification Division. The 
Division has been working on the establishment of the legal framework of the certification authority related 
activities, such as information and physical security assessments, certification of hardware and software components 
applied during classified information handling - in close cooperation with professionals of the security protection 
industry. 

 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Hungary has an officially recognized National Cybersecurity Strategy. 

 


1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

Hungary has a national governance roadmap for cybersecurity through the National cybersecurity Action Plan. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

Hungary has officially recognized the following agencies responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity 
strategy, policy and roadmap. 

- National Cybersecurity Coordination Council (Prime Minister’s Office, national coordination) 

- Cybersecurity Authority (Ministry of National Development, assessment and supervision) 

- National Security Office (Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, vulnerability handling by request) 

- National Electronic Information Security Authority (NEISA). 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

The National Electronic Information Security Authority (NEISA) is the officially recognized national or sector-specific 
benchmarking exercise or referential used to measure cybersecurity development. NEISA works on the annual audit 
plan, annual and ad-hoc reports to the Government on IT system security and critical infrastructure cybersecurity. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

The National Electronic Information Security Authority (NEISA) is the officially recognized national or sector-specific 
research and development (R&D) program/project for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be 
applied in either the private or the public sector. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

The International Children’s Safety Service (ICSS) coordinates the project and serves as its national awareness center; 
the Kék Vonal Child Crisis Foundation manages Hungary’s national helpline and the Theodore Puskas Foundation 
hosts the National Cyber Security Centre, CERT-Hungary and, since 2011, runs the Biztonsagosinternet hotline. 

The national Electronic Information Security Authority (NEISA) participates in certain National Cybersecurity 
Coordination Council workgroups, especially in those informing IT system users, aimed at students of primary and 
secondary education by collecting, merging and re-publishing related materials. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

The national government CERT (GovCERT-Hungary)’s team is certified under internationally recognized certification 
programs in cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

The national government CERT (GovCERT-Hungary) is officially the government and public sector agency certified 
under internationally recognized standards in cybersecurity. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

Hungary has officially recognized partnerships to facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders or with 
other nation states through the NSA HU division which is responsible for preparing and coordinating negotiations 
about bi- and multilateral agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, as well as 
organizing international events. The division is initiating the national security inspection of persons resident in 
Hungary at the request of foreign authorities. 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

Hungary has officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets within the 
public sector through the national Electronic Information Security Authority (NEISA). 


1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Hungary has officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets within the 
public and private sector through the Information and Cyber Security conference (ISCD). The fourth ISCD Information 
and Cyber Security conference organized by the Hungarian National Security Authority was held in Budapest on 8-9 
September 2014. The conference touched upon the current issues of cyber security and discussed the means of 
cooperation between NGOs and the State. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Hungary is signatory to Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime and is part of the following organizations: 

- EU - NATO - OSCE - UN. 

The NSA HU is representing the national interests by an active and persistent attendance at various NATO and EU 
committees and working groups. The division is responsible for coordinating this international attendance. 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instrument: 

- Section 208 of the Criminal Code. 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Hungary has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

Hungary has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The 
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Hungary does not have any officially recognized agency that offers intuitional support on child online protection. 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




The National Media and Infocommunications Authority (*) has developed the Internet Hotline website (*) where 
online content which is unlawful or detrimental to minors can be reported. 

Illegal and harmful online content can be reported at the website (*) created by the Theodore Puskas Foundation 

Computer incidents can be reported to the following email address of the National Cybersecurity Center (*): 
cert@cert-hungary.hu. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 22th January 2015 

 


