----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                            CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE  
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF KOREA  
                                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                    
  
  

BACKROUND  
Total Population: 48 588 000                                                                            Internet users, percentage of population: 84.77%  
(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012)                                        (data source: ITU Statistics, December 2012)  
                                                                                                         
  
1.     CYBERSECURITY  

         

1.1  LEGAL MEASURES  

         

1.1.1          CRIMINAL LEGISLATION  
Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments:  
- Criminal Act (Art. 316(2), Art. 366, Art, 314(2), Art. 347(2), Art. 227(2), Art. 323(2), Art. 140(3), Art 141(1))  
- Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection  
-  Personal Information Protection Act  
- Act on the Protection of Information and communications Infrastructure    
  
1.1.2          REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE  
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments:  
- Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection  
-  Personal Information Protection Act  
- Use and Protection of Credit Information Act                                                    -  Electronic Financial Transactions Act  
   
1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES  

  

1.2.1 CIRT  
Republic  of  Korea  has  an  officially  recognized  national  CIRT  (KrCERT/CC)  and  a  private  CERT  (CONCERT)  that  is  
promoting secure operation of  information  and  communications  network by preventing incidents in the  domestic  
information and communications network.   

  

1.2.2 STANDARDS  
The  Information  Security   Management  system  (ISMS)  is  the  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  
cybersecurity framework for implementing internationally recognized cybersecurity standards.  
  

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION  
The  Korea  Internet  Security  Agency  ( KISA)  provides  cybersecurity  frameworks  in  order  to  foster  professionals  
equipped with information security technology and practical abilities, national qualification . Also  SIS (Specialist for  
Information   Security),   an   accredited   private   qualification,   was   promoted   to   national   technical   qualification  
(information security engineer/ industrial information security engineer) in 2013.   
  
  
1.3  ORGANIZATION MEASURES  

  

1.3.1 POLICY  
Republic of Korea  has an officially recognized  national cybersecurity strategy  (National cybersecurity measures) in  
order to ensure a systematic government-level response to various cyber threats to national security.  

                                                                                                                                                                                                         1  
  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

 1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE  
The  Personal  information  protection  normalization  plan  (five  plans)  provides  a  national  governance  roadmap  for  
 cybersecurity in Republic of Korea.  
  
 1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY  
The  Ministry  of  Science,  ICT  and  Future  Planning  establishes,  supervises,  adjusts  and  evaluates  scientific  and  
technological policies, such as on information security, information culture, ICT  convergence promotion and radio  
wave management. It also monitors and coordinates the  implementation of a national cybersecurity strategy, policy  
 and roadmap in Republic of Korea.  

                                         

 1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING  
The  National  Information  Security  Index  is  a  measure  for  assessing  the  information  security  level  of  the  private  
 sector  (enterprises  and  individual  internet  users)  in  Republic  of  Korea  and  is  the  officially  recognized  national  
 benchmarking  referential to measure cybersecurity development.  The  Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning  
 also  organizes  joint  workshops  and  shares  information  with  countries,  agencies  and  companies  holding  excellent  
technologies by concluding MoU with them .   

         

 1.4  CAPACITY BUILDING  

  

 1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT  
The Korea Internet Security Agency (KISA) provides various guidelines regarding personal information protection on  
 Internet, VOIP information security and biometric information. It is also the officially  recognized national or sector- 
 specific research and development (R&D) program/project for cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines  
to be applied in either the private or the public sector.   

  

 1.4.2       MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  
The ICIS (International Conference on Information Security) share latest information about information security, such  

 as  domestic  and  international  advanced  security  technologies,  success  cases  and  government  policies,  and  to  

 highlight the importance of security industry as the next-generation growth power.   

The  Korea Internet Security Agency (KISA)  also  provides various educational and professional training programs  in  

 order  to  raise  awareness  with  the  general  public,  promoting  cybersecurity  courses  in  higher  education  and  

 promoting certification of professionals in both public and private sectors.  

  
 1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  
 Republic of Korea has numerous public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification  
 programs in cybersecurity such as CISA, CISSP etc. However it did not conduct a survey to gather the exact statistic.   

  

 1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION  
The  Korea  Internet  Security  Agency  (KISA)  is  the  only  public  agency  certified  under  internationally  recognized  
 standards in cybersecurity.  

  

 1.5   COOPERATION  

  

 1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION  
To  facilitate  sharing  of  cybersecurity  assets  across  borders  or  with  other  nation  states,  Korea  Internet  Security  
Agency (KISA) has signed MoU and has officially recognized partnerships with the following organizations:  
 -   Office   of   cybersecurity   and   Information   Assurance                            -  Israel National Cyber Bureau (INCB)  
 (OCSIA UK)  
 - Checkpoint Israel                                                                        -  MacAfee  
 -  Microsoft                                                                               - CERT Australia   

                                                                                                                                                                                  2  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

- CERT Romania (CERT-RO)                                                              - Japan CERT (JP CERT)  
- Chinese CERT (CN CERT)                                                              - Cybersecurity Institute (STS) of Kazakhstan  
  
1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION  
Republic  of  Korea  has  officially  recognized  national  or  sector-specific  programs  for  sharing  cybersecurity  assets  
within the public sector through the Information Communication Infrastructure Protection Committee which is part  
of  Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning  and which aims to  coordinate policies on critical  ICT infrastructure  
and improve institution on protection of critical ICT infrastructure.  
  
1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP  
The  National  Cyber  Security  Conference  is  held  on  a  regular  basis  in  order  to  share  information  about  key  cyber  
security  threats  occurring  in  public  and  private  sector  in  which    governmental  departments,  key  CERTs,  security  
companies (vaccine, monitoring) and ISP are the participating organizations.   
Republic of Korea has also has a Private –  Public –  Military Joint Response Team  created  by  the Ministry of Science,  
ICT  and  Future  Planning  organized  and  operated  for  decision-making  on  cyber  threats,  situation  monitoring,  
analysing of threats and joint investigation.   
  
1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  
Republic of Korea participated in several cybersecurity activities with APCERT  and FIRST, of  which the Korean CERT  
KrCERT/CC is a member.   

  

2      CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION  

  

2.1   NATIONAL LEGISLATION   
Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments:  
- Articles 243-245 o the Criminal Code.  
- Article 8 of the Act on the Protection of Children and Juveniles from Sexual Abuse.  
  
2.2   UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL  
Republic of Korea has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention  
on the Rights of the Child.  
Republic of Korea  has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the  Optional Protocol to  
The Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.  

  

2.3   INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT  
The Illegal and Harmful Information Report Center (*), under the Korean Communications Standards Commission  
(KCSC (*)), works on the protection of internet users with the Korean National Police Agency, the Commission on  
Youth Protection, NGOs and ISPs.  
The SafeNet (*) website, under KCSC (*) introduced a rating system that allows content providers to rate and filter  
content according a selection made by parents and educators.  
The Korean Computer Emergency Response Team ( KrCERT/CC*) provides information on general cyber-threats.  
  
2.4   REPORTING MECHANISM  
The Illegal and Harmful Information Report Center, a channel of the Korean Internet Safety Commission, receives  
report on illegal and harmful information.  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx  
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx  
                          st 
Last updated on 1   December 2014  

                                                                                                                                                                      3  
  
