----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                 CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE  
                                                                             LITHUANIA  
                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                           
  
BACKGROUND  
Total Population: 3 292 000                                                                    Internet users, percentage of population: 68.45%  
(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012)                               (data source: ITU Statistics, 2013)  
                                                                                                
  
1.    CYBERSECURITY  

        

1.1  LEGAL MEASURES  

        

1.1.1         CRIMINAL LEGISLATION  
Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments:  
-  Criminal Code of the Republic of Lithuania  (chapter on crimes against security of electronic Data and Information  
Systems)  
  

1.1.2         REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE  
Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instrument:  
-  Law in Electronic Communication (Article 42 & 62)   
   

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES  

  

1.2.1 CIRT  
Lithuania  has  an  officially  recognized  national  CIRT  (CERT-LT)  established  within  the  Communications  Regulatory  
Authority  dealing with network and information security incidents in Lithuanian public electronic communications  
networks.   
Concerning  sector-specific  CERT;   LITNET  CERT   is  the  Computer  Emergency  Response  Team  of  the  Lithuanian  
academic and research network LITNET.  SVDPT-CERT  is  a computer emergency response team of Secure State Data  
Communication  Network  of  the  Lithuanian  state  institutions  and  municipalities  and  LTU  MOD  CIRT  is  a  computer  
incident response team of the Lithuanian Ministry of Defence.  

  

1.2.2 STANDARDS  
There  is  no  available  information  concerning  any  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  cybersecurity  
frameworks for implementing international ly recognized cybersecurity standards.  
  

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION  
There  is  no  available  information  concerning  any  officially  approved  national  (and  sector  specific)  cybersecurity  
frameworks for the certification and accreditation of national agencies and public sector professionals.  
  
1.3  ORGANIZATION MEASURES  

  

1.3.1 POLICY  
The Programme for the Development of Electronic Information Security for 2011–2019  approved by Government of  
the  Republic  of  Lithuania  and  carried  out  by  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior  is  the  officially  recognized  national  
cybersecurity policy.  
 The  purpose  of  the  Programme  is  in  one  hand  to  determine  the  objectives  and  tasks  for  the  development  of  
electronic information in order to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and accessibility of electronic information and  
services  provided  in  cyberspace,  safeguarding  of  electronic  communication  networks,  information  systems  and  
critical information infrastructure against incidents and cyberattacks, protection of personal data and privacy, as well  
as to set the tasks, implementation of which would allow total security of cyberspace and entities operating in this  
                                                                                                                                                                                       1  
  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

medium. On the other hand the programme ensures the security of state-owned information resources, an efficient  
functioning of critical information infrastructure.   

  

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE  
The   Programme  for  the  Development  of  Electronic  Information  Security  for  2011–2019   provides  a  national  
governance roadmap for cybersecurity in Lithuania.  

  

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY  
The coordination of the national cybersecurity strategy (Programme for the Development of Electronic Information  
Security for 2011–2019 implementations) is carried out by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Lithuania.  
Also, an inter-institutional Electronic Information Security (Cybersecurity) Coordination Commission is in operation,  
chaired by the representative of the Ministry of the Interior.  

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING  
There is no available information concerning any officially recognized national of sector-specific benchmarking  
exercises or referential used to measure cybersecurity development in Lithuania.   

        

1.4  CAPACITY BUILDING  

  

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT  
There  is  no  available  information  concerning  any  officially  recognized  national  or  sector-specific  research  and  
development  (R&D)  programs/projects  for  cybersecurity  standards,  best  practices  and  guidelines  to  be  applied  in  
either the private or the public sector.  

  

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  
There  is  no  available  information  concerning  any  officially  recognized  national  or  sector-specific  educational  and  
professional  training  programs  for  raising  awareness  with  the  general  public,  promoting  cybersecurity  courses  in  
higher education and promoting certification of professionals in either the public or the private sectors.  

  
1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION  
There   is   no   available   information   concerning   any   public   sector   professionals   certified   under   internationally  
recognized certification programs in cybersecurity.   

  

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION  
Lithuanian   CERT-LT,  LITNET  CERT,  SVDPT-CERT are  all  accredited  teams  by  Trusted  Introducer  which  address  
common  needs  and  build  a  service  infrastructure  providing  vital  support  for  all  security  and  incident  responses  
teams.   
LITNET is a member of the Trans-European Research and Education Networking Association TERENA  which offers a  
forum to collaborate, innovate and share knowledge in order to foster the development of Internet technology.  

  

1.5  COOPERATION  

  

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION  
To  facilitate  sharing  of  cybersecurity  assets  across  borders  or  with  other  nation  states,  Lithuania  has  officially  
recognized national or sector-specific partnerships with the following organizations:  
-The      Communication              Regulatory          Authority         (RTT)      which       is   an     independent            national       institution        regulating  
communication  sector  in  Lithuania  that  implements  the   European  Union  Safer  Internet  programme  and,  in  
cooperation with the Centre of Information Technologies in Education (ITC) and other partners executes the Safer  
Internet project.  
- Association INHOPE which is a hotline established by RRT to report illegal or harmful content on the  Internet  

                                                                                                                                                                                     2  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

 - Council of Europe                                                                                                                   -ENISA  
CERT-LT has signed Memorandums of Understanding with CERTs of other countries (e.g., KZ-CERT).  

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION  
There is no available information concerning any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing  
cybersecurity assets within the public sector.   

  

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP  
There is no available information concerning any officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing  
cybersecurity assets between the public and private sector.  

  

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  
Lithuania is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services.   
Lithuania   participated  in  the  cybersecurity  activities  of   ENISA.  Lithuania,   represented  by  the  Communications  
Regulatory Authority, is a member of the Government Advisory Committee (GAC), an advisory body to the Board of  
Directors of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the organization which performs  
the  administration  of  the  Internet  protocol  addresses,  domain  name  system  and  Internet  root  servers.  The  main  
function of GAC is to advise ICANN on public policy issues .  
Lithuania also participated in the International Cyber Shield Exercise 2014 in Turkey (ICSE 2014).  

CERT-LT,  LITNET  CERT,  LTU  MOD  CIRT  are  members  of  FIRST  and  are  all  listed  teams  by  Trusted  Introducer  of  
TERENA .  

  

2.    CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION  

  

2.1  NATIONAL LEGISLATION   
Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instrument :  
-     Article 309* of the Criminal Code.  
        
2.2  UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL  
Lithuania  has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the  Convention on the  
Rights of the Child.  

  

Lithuania  has  acceded,  with  no  declarations  or  reservations  to  articles  2  and  3,  to  the  Optional  Protocol  to  The  
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.  

  

2.3  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT  
The website of the Lithuanian Communications Regulatory Authority (CRA (*)) has information on internet security  
for consumers and provides a link to Safer Internet.  
  
2.4  REPORTING MECHANISM  
Online information with pedophilic or pornographic character or information inciting racial and ethnic hatred can be  
reported in the website (*) of Safer Internet Lithuania.  

Online harmful content  can be reported at the website of the Lithuanian Computer Emergency Response Team  
(cert-lt (*)).  

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx  
More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx  
Last updated on 25th September 2014  

                                                                                                                                                                                 3  
  
