 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 

 



Flag of Russia.svg
Flag of Russia.svg 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 146 300 000 

(data source: Rosstat, April 2016) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 74.40% 

(data source: Internet in Russia and World , April 2016) 

 

 



1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instrument: 

- Criminal code (Chapter 28: Articles 272 - 274) 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Specific legislation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following normative legal instruments 
(these instruments contain measures to combat spam, protect legal entity and individual information, technical and 
legislative regulation and others): 

. Federal Law No 307-FZ of 14.10.2014 "Amendments 
to the Federal law "On protecting children from 
information harmful to their health and 
development" and some legislative acts of the 
Russian Federation 
. Order of the Russian President No 557-rp of 
15.11.2005 "On signing the Convention on 
cybercrime" 
. Federal Law No FZ -152 "On Personal Data 
Protection" 
. Federal Law No 97-FZ of 05.05.2014 "On amending 
the Federal Law "On Information, Information 
Technologies and Protection of Information" and 
some legislative acts of the Russian Federation on 
streamlining the exchange of information with the 
use of information and telecommunication 
networks", as well as a number of subordinate acts 
are available at: (http://97-fz.rkn.gov.ru) 
. GOST R 56205-2014 "Industrial communication 
networks. Network and system security 
(cybersecurity)" 


 

. Article 5 of the Federal Law No 184-FZ "On 
Technical Regulation"; Resolution of the Russian 
Government of 26.06.1995 No 608 "On 
certification of means for protection of 
information" 
. Resolution of the Russian Government of 
26.06.1995 No 608 “On certification of means for 
protection of information". New system is at the 
stage of concept, Presidential Decree No 31s "On 
establishment of the State System for detection, 
prevention and elimination of consequences of 
cyberattacks on information resources of the 
Russian Federation" 
. Concept of the State System for detection, 
prevention and elimination of consequences of 
cyberattacks on information resources of the 
Russian Federation (adopted by the Russian 
President 12.12.2014 No . 1274) 
. Federal Law No 38-FZ, Article 18 "On Advertising". 


 



 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Russia has the Centre for Cyber Incident Response in Information Systems of Governmental Authorities. 
International name is GOV-CERT.RU. That Centre is coordinating the actions of involved companies and 


governmental agencies in the field of detecting, preventing and suppression of illegal activity related to 
network resources of government bodies. 

For that kind of illegal activity, which not touches network resources of government bodies, there are RU-
CERT – the Russian Cyber Incidents Response Centre and CERT-GIB – 24-hour Cyber Incidents Response 
Centre. Main objective of those Centers is to reduce the level of threats to information security for users of 
the Russian segment of Internet. For this purpose RU-CERT is assisting to Russian and foreign legal entities 
and individuals in detecting, preventing and suppression of illegal activity and also performs collection, 
storage and processing of statistic data related to network resources located on the territory of the Russian 
Federation. 

RU-CERT is the part of the international CSIRT/CERT associations: FIRST and Trusted Introducer, and acts as 
the Russian official contact point within these associations. 

Beside of that, Russia has special Cyber Incidents Monitoring and Response Centre in the field of credit and 
financial (FinCERT). FinCERT is a part of head security and data protection department of the Bank of 
Russia. 

FinCERT performs collection of data on cybersecurity from financial companies, analysis of that data, 
ensuring feedback with credit and financial companies on possible threats to information security, and 
development of recommendation on reflecting cyberattacks. FinCERT cooperates with operational bodies 
of Russian Federal Security Service (FSB). Also, one of the major objective of FinCERT is reducing the illegal 
writing off of amounts from credit cards. 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Russia has officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards, specifically Federal Agency on Technical Regulating and 
Metrology (Rosstandart) 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

Russia has officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for the certification and 
accreditation of national and public professional agencies. Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation 
No.608, June 26, 1995 "On certification of information protection tools". The new system is at the concept stage, 
and there is Presidential Decree No. 31s "On establishment of the State System for detection, prevention and 
elimination of consequences of cyberattacks on information resources of the Russian Federation". 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Russia has officially adopted National Security Strategy of the Russian Federation (2000) and National Security 
Concept of the Russian Federation, as well as Concept of the Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation (2013) and 
Information Security Doctrine of the Russian Federation (2000). 

Also, there were developed Basic Principles for State Policy of the Russian Federation in the field of International 
Information Security (2013), Basic Principles for State Policy of the Russian Federation in the field of International 
Information Security (2020) and Draft Concept of the Russian Cyber Security Strategy. 

 

 

 

 


1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

Russia does not currently have any national governance roadmap for cybersecurity. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

Russian Federal Security Service (FSB), Federal Guard Service (FSO), Federal Service for Technical and Export Control 
(FSTEC), Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), Ministry of Defense (MoD) and the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) are 
the officially recognized institutions responsible for implementation of national cybersecurity strategy, policy and 
roadmap in Russia. In addition, part of the functions is delegated to the Federal Service for Supervision of 
Communications, Information Technology, and Mass Media (Roscomnadzor) and to the Ministry of Telecom and 
Mass Communications of the Russian Federation (Minsvyaz). 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

Each government entity in Russia performs an annual audit of its own networks and systems depending on the 
requirements of the information. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Russia has officially recognized national or sector-specific research and development (R&D) programs/projects for 
cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines to be applied in either the private or the public sector through 
the ITU-T Study Group 17. 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

There are several higher education institutions specializing in this field in Russia. 

The Russian Law Academy of the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation provides higher education at 
information law, informatics and mathematics department. In addition, the Academy offers professional training 
courses for employees of the corresponding industry. 

Core training is carried out at the Moscow University of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, 
Information Security Department. 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

The mentioned above (1.4.2) higher education institutions institutions provide professional certification in this field. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

The mentioned above (1.4.2) higher education institutions serve as certification agencies in this field. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

To facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders or with other nation states, the Russian company in 
incident response business CIRT (CERT-GIB) has officially recognized partnerships with the League of Safer Internet 
and the National Coordination Centre. 

 

 

 


1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

In the public sector Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) is officially cooperating with the following organizations on 
the matters of cybersecurity: 

. Federal Service for Technical and Export Control 
(FSTEC ) 
. Ministry of Defence (MoD ) 
. Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) 


 

. Federal Service for Supervision of 
Communications, Information Technology, and 
Mass Media (Roscomnadzor) 
. Ministry of Telecom and Mass Communications of 
the Russian Federation (Minsvyaz) 




 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Russia has all officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity data within the 
public sector (the Agreement between the Governments of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organization on Cooperation in the Field of International Information Security, Yekaterinburg, 16 June 2009). 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

The Russian Federation is officially participating in regional and/or international platforms and forums on 
cybersecurity. For instance: http://www.cert.ru/ru/about.shtml 

 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments: 

Federal Law of the Russian Federation No. 436-FZ on Protection of Children from Information Harmful to Their 
Health and Development 

Presidential Decree No. 761 of 1 June 2012, on the National Strategy of Action for Children for 2012-2017 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Russia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

Russia has signed but not ratified (as of 14th December 2014), the Optional Protocol to The Convention on the Rights 
of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




Russia does not have any officially recognized agency that provides institutional support on child online protect. 

There is Smart Internet Foundation in Russia. 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Cyber Security and Incident Response Team for the governmental networks of the Russian Federation (GOV-CERT.RU 
(*)) provides space in its website to report a computer incident. 

 

Safer Internet Centre for Russia (*) provides space in its website to report online illegal content. 

 

The Friendly RUNET Foundation (*) provides space (*) in its website to report online illegal content. 


 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 22th January 2015 

 


