 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

 SLOVAKIA 

 



Drapeau 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 5 480 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 77.88% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 

 

 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instrument: 

- Criminal Law (Law 300/2005) Paragraphs § 247, § 283, § 196 and 197 

- European Council Convention on Cybercrime 

 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments: 

- For banks: Law 483/2001 & Law 747/2004 - For public administration : Law 275/2006 

- For telecommunication sector: Law 351/2011 - For Personal identifiable information: Law 122/2013 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Slovakia has an officially recognized national CIRT (CSIRT Slovakia). 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Slovakia has officially approved national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards through the Standardization committee for Information Systems 
of public administration (ISVS). Standardization committee is responsible for setting standards for ISVS on security, 
technical standards, data standards and project management standards. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

The national cybersecurity framework for accreditation and certification of information systems is regulated by the 
National Security Authority which is the main body of the state administration for the protection of classified 
information, and electronic signature. 

The officially approved national cybersecurity framework for the certification of information systems used for the 
protection of classified information is regulated in the Act on the protection of Classified Information. 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Slovakia has an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy through the National strategy for Information 
Security (*). It defines strategic goals for Slovak Republic in various sectors such as protection of CII, awareness 
raising and capabilities building, ensuring secure environment, technical, operational and strategic controls, effective 
management of information security, protection and defence of public administration information infrastructure and 
national and international cooperation. 


1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

The Action plan to the National Strategy for Information Security defines tasks for various agencies in the field of 
information security and provides a national governance roadmap for cybersecurity in Slovakia. 

 

1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The national agency responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity strategy is the Ministry of Finance of 
Slovak republic (information security and protection of sector information technology in critical infrastructure). 
Other Ministries/agencies responsible for implementing specific areas of a strategy are: 

- Ministry of Interior -Ministry of Telecommunication (ISP) 

- National Security Authority (NBU) (Protection of classified information, digital signature) 

 -Ministry of culture (authors’ law) -Ministry of Justice (Fight against cybercrime) 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

The national CIRT (CSIRT Slovakia) is the officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking exercise or 
referential used to measure cybersecurity development. 

Slovakia has participated in cyber Slovak Information Security Exercise (SISE) on 2011, 2012 and 2013. 

 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Slovakia has officially recognized national or sector-specific research and development (R&D) programs/projects for 
cybersecurity standards, best practices and guidelines through the workgroups created by the Ministry of Finance, 
under the Committee of Standardization for various tasks including cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

Slovakia has officially recognized national educational and professional training programs for raising awareness with 
the general public, promoting cybersecurity courses in higher education and promoting certification of professionals 
through the Ministry of Finance of Slovak Republic (MF SR) project on cybersecurity which consists of systematic 
education of non-professionals in IT, managers and security professionals in field of cybersecurity in public 
administration. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

There is no available information concerning any public sector professionals certified under internationally 
recognized certification programs in cybersecurity. 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

There is no available information concerning any certified government and public sector agencies under 
internationally recognized standards in cybersecurity. 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

To facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders or with other nation states, Slovakia has officially 
recognized partnerships with the following organizations: 

-NATO -FIRST -OSCE -European Union 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 


The Themis project is the officially recognized program for information sharing platform for connected organization 
from public administration. The national CIRT (CSIRT Slovakia) mandates the sharing of cybersecurity assets within 
the public sector. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

Slovakia has officially recognized national or sector-specific programs for sharing cybersecurity assets within the 
public and private sector through the Themis project and the national CIRT (CSIRT Slovakia). 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Slovakia is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. Slovakia also 
participated in the second Central European Cyber Security Platform (CECSP). 

 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments: 

-§132 and §368-370* of the Criminal Code 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Slovakia has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

Slovakia has signed and ratified with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to 
The Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




There is no available information concerning any officially recognized agencies that offer institutional support in 
child online protection. 

 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Online illegal content can be reported in the website of Stopline (*). Incidents can be reported in the website of the 
Computer Security Incident Response Team of Slovakia (CSIRT (*)). 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 12th August 2014 

 


