 

CYBERWELLNESS PROFILE 

 TURKEY 

 



http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/b4/Flag_of_Turkey.svg/125px-Flag_of_Turkey.svg.png 


BACKGROUND 

Total Population: 74 509 000 

(data source: United Nations Statistics Division, December 2012) 

Internet users, percentage of population: 46.25% 

(data source: ITU Statistics, 2013) 

 

 



 

1. CYBERSECURITY 


 

1.1 LEGAL MEASURES 




 

1.1.1 CRIMINAL LEGISLATION 






Specific legislation on cybercrime has been enacted through the following instruments: 

-Law on Regulation of the publications on the Internet 
and Combating against committed crimes by these 
publications 

-Turkish Criminal Law 

 



 

1.1.2 REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE 






Specific legislation and regulation related to cybersecurity has been enacted through the following instruments: 

-Law on Security of Electronic 
Communications 

-Regulation Concerning the Processing of Personal Data and the 
Protection of Privacy in the Electronic Communications Sector 



 

 

1.2 TECHNICAL MEASURES 




 

1.2.1 CIRT 

Turkey has an officially recognized national CIRT (TR-CERT). 

 

1.2.2 STANDARDS 

Turkey has officially recognized national (and sector specific) cybersecurity frameworks for implementing 
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards through the National Cyber Security Strategy and Action plan 
2013-2014 and the Law on Security of Electronic Communications. 

 

1.2.3 CERTIFICATION 

Turkish Standards Institution provides system, personnel and product certification services according to many 
international standards including ISO IEC 27001, ISO IEC 15408, ISO IEC 12207. 

 

 

1.3 ORGANIZATION MEASURES 




 

1.3.1 POLICY 

Turkey has an officially recognized national cybersecurity strategy (National Cyber Security Strategy and Action plan 
2013-2014). The strategy is based on the principal of securing the information systems used in critical infrastructures 
and taking necessary measures to provide national cybersecurity. 

 

1.3.2 ROADMAP FOR GOVERNANCE 

The National Cybersecurity Strategy and Action Plan allows for 29 main actions and 95 sub actions and assigns 
responsibilities about legislation, capacity building, development of technical infrastructure. This in turn provides a 
national governance roadmap for cybersecurity in Turkey. 

 

 

 

 


1.3.3 RESPONSIBLE AGENCY 

The Cybersecurity Board is the officially recognized agency responsible for implementing a national cybersecurity 
strategy, policy and roadmap. It was established, in order to determine the measures regarding cyber security, to 
approve the prepared plans, programs, reports, procedures, principles and standards and ensure the application and 
coordination of them. 

 

1.3.4 NATIONAL BENCHMARKING 

In last three years Turkey organized three cyber security exercises at the national level. Participants from both public 
and private sector have experienced real cyber-attacks and also worked on scenarios. These exercises played a big 
role in raising awareness of cybersecurity and also were a great tool for measuring the development of 
cybersecurity. Additionally the By-Law on Security of Electronic Communications obliges electronic communications 
service providers to comply with ISO IEC 27001. The audits performed by the NRA (ICTA) play a big role in measuring 
the cybersecurity development level of electronic communications sector. 

 

1.4 CAPACITY BUILDING 




 

1.4.1 STANDARDISATION DEVELOPMENT 

Turkish Standards Institution is the institution that is responsible for standardization activities. Internationally 
recognized cybersecurity standards are adopted as Turkish standards as part of harmonization process. The 
institution provides also standardization services considering the country and sector specific needs. 

 

1.4.2 MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT 

Turkish Scientific and Technologic Research Agency and Turkish Standards Institution provide cyber security related 
training programs including CEH, ISO IEC 27001 lead auditor, internet governance, ICT law etc. There are also 
graduate programs like information security engineering, cybersecurity, ICT law in several universities like Bah.e.ehir 
University and .ehir University. The graduate programs cover both technical and legal aspects of cybersecurity. 
Besides, several websites such as www.bilgiguvenligi.gov.tr, www.bilgimikoruyorum.org.tr, www.guvenliweb.org.tr 
have been established to raise awareness among the people. 

 

1.4.3 PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION 

Turkey has about 400 public sector professionals certified under internationally recognized certification programs in 
cybersecurity 

 

1.4.4 AGENCY CERTIFICATION 

There are 106 electronic communications service providers that have ISO IEC 27001 certification. The certification 
agencies include both accredited national (like Turkish Standards Institution, Kalitest etc) and international 
certification agencies (like BSI, Bureau Veritas, and DAS etc). There are nearly 15 governmental and public sector 
institutions that have certifications like ISO IEC 27001, ISO IEC 17025, ISO/IEC 18045. The certification agencies are 
generally accredited national certification agencies (like Turkish Standards Institution, Kalitest etc). 

 

1.5 COOPERATION 




 

1.5.1 INTRA-STATE COOPERATION 

To facilitate sharing of cybersecurity assets across borders or with other nation states, Turkey has officially 
recognized partnerships with the following countries and organizations: 

-Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia, Herzegovina, 
Bulgaria, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, 

-Montenegro, Morocco, Niger, Republic of Sudan, Senegal, 
Serbia, Tunisia, Iran, Thailand, Egypt and Ukraine 

-NATO 

 



 

 

 

 

 


1.5.2 INTRA-AGENCY COOPERATION 

The National Cyber Security Strategy and Action Plan 2013-2014 encourages the efficient use and sharing of 
resources between governmental institutions in cybersecurity related activities. 

 

1.5.3 PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIP 

The National Cyber Security Strategy and Action Plan 2013-2014 encourages the efficient use and sharing of 
resources between public and private sector in cybersecurity related activities. 

 

1.5.4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION 

Turkey is a member of the ITU-IMPACT initiative and has access to relevant cybersecurity services. Turkey is also 
actively involved in the standardization work on cybersecurity within ITU-T. TR-CERT (USOM) is also candidate for 
FIRST and Trusted Introducer Membership. Turkey has co-organized with the collaboration of IMPACT and ITU, the 
International Cyber Shield Exercise 2014 (ICSE 2014), in May 2014 Istanbul, Turkey. Turkey participated in Applied 
Learning for Emergency Response Team (ALERT) 2012 during the ITU Regional Forum on Cybersecurity for Europe 
and CIS, in October 2012, in Bulgaria. 

 

2. CHILD ONLINE PROTECTION 


 

2.1 NATIONAL LEGISLATION 




Specific legislation on child online protection has been enacted through the following instruments: 

-The Criminal Code (Article 26) 

-Law on Regulation of the publications on the Internet and Combating against committed crimes by these 
publications (Article 8) 

 

2.2 UN CONVENTION AND PROTOCOL 




Turkey has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 16, 17(e) and 34(c), to the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. 

 

Turkey has acceded, with no declarations or reservations to articles 2 and 3, to the Optional Protocol to The 
Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. 

 

2.3 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT 




The Turkish Information and Communication Technologies Authority, Telecommunications Presidency (*), provides 
information and makes awareness raising activities about online safety and children online protection to the Turkish 
public. 

2.4 REPORTING MECHANISM 




Online illegal material (according to Law 5651) can be reported at the website of Turkish Internet Hotline which is a 
member of INHOPE. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

DISCLAIMER: Please refer to http://www.itu.int/en/Pages/copyright.aspx 

More information is available on ITU website at http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Cybersecurity/Pages/default.aspx 

Last updated on 12th August 2014 


